Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Over the past year at Microsoft, we’ve challenged 
ourselves to rediscover what it is about the core of 
our company that really matters. How can we make 
a difference in this world in a way that no other 
company can? We’ve begun by embracing a new 
mission: to empower every person and every orga-
nization on the planet to achieve more. To achieve 
our mission, we’ve defined business ambitions 
that are equally bold: to reinvent productivity and 
business processes, to build the intelligent cloud 
platform, and to create more personal computing. 
The true test of the difference we make is the 
impact we have on people’s lives. This is why I trav-
eled to Nanyuki, Kenya, to celebrate the launch of 
Windows 10. Nestled in the foothills of Mt. Kenya, 
125 miles north of Nairobi, Nanyuki is a place 
where sending an email or accessing the Web in 
the past required a five-hour walk to the nearest 
wireless hotspot. Now, an innovative technology 
developed by Microsoft researchers, one that takes 
advantage of underutilized television broadcast 
spectrum, is helping to provide low-cost Internet 
access to the residents of Nanyuki. In the novel “The 
Flame Trees of Thika” set among these same foot-
hills, Elspeth Huxley writes that “when the present 
stung her, she sought her antidote in the future.” 
That future is now brighter. This fall, I visited Latin 
America to learn how technology is being used to 
empower people and businesses across the region. 
In Toluca, Mexico, just outside Mexico City, I saw 
this firsthand at a YouthSpark-POETA center that 
offers people from underrepresented backgrounds 
access to digital literacy, computer science training 
and mentoring, and resources to seek employment 
and entrepreneurship opportunities. I met with 
students and young entrepreneurs who had been 
inspired to start their own businesses, and in turn 
apply those learnings to teach others, and it was a 
profound reminder of the impact we can have  
in the world.  
To really make a difference, it’s not enough to 
build great products and services. Living up to our 
mission also depends on how well we apply our 
technology, talent and financial resources to foster 
opportunity and serve the needs of communities 
around the globe where our employees, partners 
and customers live. We recognize that our ability 
to pursue these goals requires that we conduct 
our business with integrity, with respect for human 
rights, and in ways that promote environmental 
sustainability. 
This report summarizes our work during fiscal year 
2015 to meet the high expectations that we have 
for ourselves and that our customers, communi-
ties and other stakeholders have for us. Highlights 
include our efforts to address climate change 
through an industry-leading internal carbon fee 
and new policies designed to ensure that our U.S. 
suppliers provide paid leave to their employees 
who handle our work. In addition, in FY15, we made 
more than $922 million in technology donations to 
more than 120,000 nonprofit organizations globally, 
and Microsoft employees contributed $117 million 
to nearly 20,000 nonprofits through our corporate 
giving campaign.
 
We’re particularly proud of our efforts to increase 
access to education and opportunity for young 
people. This year we surpassed the three-year 
goal for our YouthSpark initiative by creating 
opportunities for education, employment and 
entrepreneurship for 307 million youth worldwide. 
Over the next three years we are committing $75 
million to the next generation of our YouthSpark 
initiative to increase access to computer science 
education for all youth worldwide, especially those 
from under-represented backgrounds.
As I’ve shared with Microsoft employees, I believe 
we can do amazing things when we come together 
with a clear mission and a culture that brings  
out the best in us as individuals and collectively.  
Microsoft’s citizenship commitments help us 
ensure that what we accomplish together not only 
advances our business but also ultimately increases 
the positive impact we have in places like Nanyuki 
and Toluca and everywhere we do business around 
the world. 
 
Sincerely,
Satya Nadella
Chief Executive Officer
Letter from Our CEO
