36Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
4.4 Humanitarian and Disaster Response
In times of disaster, and to prepare for those times, Microsoft and our partners 
contribute resources and technology solutions to assist governments and 
humanitarian organizations in their emergency response efforts. Microsoft’s  
Global Disaster Response Team includes experts from Microsoft Operations, 
Services, and Citizenship and Public Affairs to quickly deploy Microsoft technologies 
and technical assistance to customers, communities, governments, and nonprofits 
in the wake of natural disasters. The team also works to help organizations make 
technology systems more resilient to proactively prepare for disasters. We also help 
governments and nonprofits quickly identify and deploy the right technology to 
address the unique needs of a disaster situation. 
In FY15, Microsoft provided support to address a 
number of disasters around the world, including 
the spread of ebola in Africa, flooding in India,  
and a cyclone in the Philippines. In addition, we 
provided more than $13 million in cash, technol-
ogy, and in-kind support to help with the relief 
efforts necessitated by two major earthquakes  
in Nepal. After the devastation we saw in Nepal, 
we offered free calls in and out of the country  
via Skype. The Microsoft Innovation Center in 
Kathmandu trained student partners and sent 
them to local communities with Windows Phones 
to help people make Skype calls and connect  
with families, friends, and aid. Our Microsoft 
Consulting Services Team also provided a range  
of free technology services to agencies working  
on earthquake relief efforts in Nepal, including the 
United Nations Development Programme, Office 
of the Prime Minister, Nepalese Ministry of 
Finance, and the Nepal Police. 
For more information, see our Disaster Response 
Program website. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
