41Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Our human rights commitments are incorporated 
into our Standards of Business Conduct, which  
all employees receive and for which they must 
complete training (as described in depth in the 
Ethical Business Conduct and Governance 
chapter). Our human rights commitments are  
also highlighted in a range of role-specific train-
ings tailored to particular business functions.  
As our Global Human Rights Statement articulates, 
we regularly review and strengthen anonymous 
grievance reporting mechanisms that allow our 
employees and others affected by our operations 
to report suspected incidents of human rights 
abuse. We investigate and, where appropriate, 
take remedial action to address reported viola-
tions. The mechanisms take multiple channels, 
ranging from our Standards of Business Conduct 
hotline described in the Ethics and Business 
Compliance chapter to private communications 
we have with human rights defenders, such as 
Freedom House, that work with us to disable user 
accounts that have been compromised by political 
regimes conducting human rights abuses. 
Since 2013, the Microsoft Technology and  
Human Rights Center has worked to prioritize  
and coordinate human rights due diligence, identify 
emerging risks and opportunities related to human 
rights, and promote harmonized approaches to 
human rights across Microsoft. The Center also 
works to foster dialogue to advance understanding 
of the human rights impacts of information and 
communications technology (ICT). Through the 
Center, Microsoft engages with a broad range of 
human rights groups, academics, and industry 
groups globally to share Microsoft’s experiences 
and lessons learned. Among its activities in FY15, 
the Center has:
• Collaborated with groups such as the Aspen 
Institute’s Business and Society Program, The 
Conference Board, International Corporate 
Governance Network, and World Economic 
Forum to share best practices for business to 
address human rights issues. 
• Hosted a series of multi-stakeholder workshops 
on business and human rights in the United 
Kingdom, Brussels, and Central Europe. 
• Sponsored and participated in RightsCon 
Southeast Asia, a summit on defending 
digital rights of Internet users which attracted 
participants from NGOs, business, and 
governments from 50 countries. 
• Convened a range of events including 
roundtables at the World Economic Forum 
Annual Meeting in Davos on LGBT equality and 
on government surveillance and meetings with 
institutional investors and corporate lawyers to 
raise awareness and understanding of the UN 
Guiding Principles.
Our Approach5.1
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
