8Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
To inform our decisions, we regularly communicate with thousands of  
stakeholders globally ranging from parents concerned about their child’s online 
safety to international human rights experts. These engagements take many forms. 
Employees from our business and operational 
groups regularly identify and engage with stake-
holders in the course of their daily work activities. 
Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team also 
manages a number of stakeholder relationships 
and ongoing dialogues to help inform and guide 
our strategies. We connect with leading thinkers 
on corporate responsibility and societal challenges 
in groups such as Business for Social Responsibility,  
CSR Europe, and the World Economic Forum. 
We learn from them and other advocacy groups, 
socially responsible investors, corporate responsi-
bility rating agencies, other external stakeholders, 
and our own employees to identify new and 
emerging citizenship issues. We also base our 
work on international frameworks such as the 
United Nations Global Compact, the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, and  
the Global Reporting Initiatives’ Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines.
Stakeholder Engagement1.3
Stakeholder Engagement Overview
Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results
Customers We gain insights from online feedback, support 
communities, product satisfaction surveys, usability 
studies, research forums, business account manag-
ers, and our customer service representatives. 
Customer feedback and insights underlie all 
of our decisions to enhance existing products 
and develop new ones. In FY15, the Windows 
Insider program reached 5 million customers 
to allow them to preview Windows 10 and 
provide feedback, which helped shape key 
features of the product. Customer feedback 
also plays an important role in helping us 
develop clearer and more customer-friendly 
contracts and terms of use policies.
Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results
Investors Beyond traditional investor communications such as 
earnings calls and our annual meeting, we seek to 
proactively provide investors with corporate gover-
nance information through diverse communications, 
including a director video interview series and direct 
communications from independent members of 
our board to shareholders. We proactively reach out 
to institutional investors—including public pension 
funds and socially responsible investors—about 
governance and citizenship-related topics, and 
deliver a summary of their feedback to the board. In 
FY15, these engagements reached investors holding 
over 40 percent of our outstanding shares. We 
seek to transparently provide information sought 
by socially responsible investors and corporate 
responsibility rating agencies and seek their insights 
to identify new and emerging citizenship issues. 
Our engagement with investors has 
influenced many important parts of our 
citizenship strategy, such as our human 
rights commitments under the Global 
Network Initiative, a collaborative effort 
between information and communications 
technology (ICT) companies, human rights 
groups, socially responsible investors, and 
others. Investors are an important influence 
as we continue to consider ways to enhance 
our corporate governance principles 
and policies to serve the interests of our 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
