Municipal Supply
(2,373,012)
Groundwater
(222,947)
Recycled Water Supplies
(402,282)
Rainwater
(4,932)
Total 3,003,173 (cubic meters)
Landfill Recycle Compost
FY14
2,252
17,231
4,692
FY12 FY13
3,270
2,491
9,960
12,105
4,112
4,995
67Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.4 Water and Waste
Water 
Microsoft’s operations are generally not water 
intensive, with the exception of some of our data-
centers that rely on water for cooling. We’ve worked 
to mitigate the impacts of datacenter water use 
by using recycled municipal waste water in some 
water-scarce locations such as San Antonio, Texas.
Beyond datacenters, Microsoft continues to 
invest in water-saving fixtures in our office  
buildings and smart landscape irrigation  
practices to conserve water. 
Waste
Microsoft’s Real Estate and Facilities teams around 
the world implement waste minimization programs, 
including office supply reuse, recycling, and in many 
cases, composting programs. Among our accom-
plishments, we reduced, reused, or recycled 99 
percent of the waste from our Redmond, Washing-
ton dining facilities by switching to compostable 
tableware, administering aggressive recycling 
programs, and adapting our menu to get the  
most from each item of food served.
 
We’ve also set a long-term goal of 90 percent 
waste diversion from landfills across our global 
headquarters facilities in the Puget Sound region 
of Washington, which represent approximately 
36 percent of our total real estate portfolio. We’re 
rapidly approaching that goal and are working 
to extend that goal to additional campuses in the 
United States and around the globe.
Our increased use of recycling and composting 
and lower waste to landfill is evident in the fol-
lowing chart, covering data from our facilities 
across the Puget Sound region. We are working 
to increase the amount of waste data we collect 
across other Microsoft locations to improve our 
waste reporting in the future.
As we expand our on-campus hardware device 
labs, we have begun to generate hazardous waste 
and e-waste from developing and testing proto-
type devices. We have implemented a chemical 
management program that helps employees 
prevent waste generation by using less-polluting 
products and reducing or eliminating unused 
materials. When we do generate waste, we recycle 
whenever possible and dispose of any remainder 
as required by local regulations. We have also 
developed an auditing program to verify that any 
facility that handles our waste for recycling or 
disposal can do so responsibly and while comply-
ing with environmental regulations. In FY14 we 
generated 1.68 metric tons of hazardous waste 
across our Puget Sound facilities, which was 
disposed of at properly permitted US hazardous 
waste facilities. 
Waste Disposal Trends (metric tons) 21FY14 Water Use by Source 20
20 This data covers 65 percent of Microsoft facilities by square foot-
age, including key water using data center operations. Additional 
details of our water use and previous years’ reports are publicly 
available in our CDP Water Project filing. As with emissions and 
energy data, we will disclose updated FY15 water data before the 
end of the calendar year at www.microsoft.com/transparencyhub.
21 Data covers 74 percent of Microsoft’s global facilities by square 
footage. As with emissions and energy data, we will disclose 
updated FY15 water data before the end of the calendar year at 
www.microsoft.com/transparencyhub.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
