44Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
5.4 Working to Protect the Rights of Vulnerable Populations
Microsoft works to help protect people of all ages and abilities against a broad 
range of risks, including malware, online hoaxes, tech scams, and online bullying.
To promote the safer use of Microsoft devices and online services, we offer a range 
of safety features, including family safety settings. We also have strong prohibitions 
against abusive behavior on our online services in our Terms of Use, which are 
enforced by complaint response teams on services such as Xbox Live.
We promote online safety broadly across the 
Internet as well. Microsoft has a near 20-year 
history making online safety resources  
available to children and their parents. In FY15,  
we enhanced our existing materials with new 
interactive and engaging online safety resources 
on the Microsoft YouthSpark Hub to empower and 
involve youth in adopting safer online habits and 
practices. In FY15, Microsoft joined the UK Prime 
Minister’s WePROTECT Children Online initiative 
to combat child sexual exploitation and abuse 
and serves as the industry representative on the 
WePROTECT International Advisory Board, which 
is recommending a series of actions for the global 
child protection community.
These and other activities follow Microsoft’s work 
six years ago with Dartmouth College to develop 
PhotoDNA, a free technology that helps identify 
and remove child sexual abuse images from 
among the billions of photos on the Internet. 
PhotoDNA has now become an industry best 
practice for combating child sexual abuse images 
and is used by NGOs, law enforcement, and other 
leading Internet companies like Facebook. At 
Microsoft, we use PhotoDNA to help disrupt the 
spread of child sexual abuse images through our 
Bing, OneDrive, and Outlook.com services. This 
year Microsoft made PhotoDNA available as a  
free cloud service to make it even easier for 
companies to detect and report illegal images of 
child sexual abuse before they are seen by others.
A broad range of groups across Microsoft work 
to advance a safer Internet for all, including the 
Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit, an international 
legal and technical team of more than 100  
attorneys, investigators, big data scientists, and 
forensic analysts. DCU’s cybercrime experts focus 
on two areas: fighting malware and reducing risk; 
and protecting vulnerable populations, especially 
the very young and the elderly. The DCU’s work 
includes investigating fraud and tech scams  
targeting unsuspecting and non-tech savvy cus-
tomers, who are primarily the elderly. To combat 
this problem, DCU works with law enforcement, 
the Federal Trade Commission, and advocacy 
groups such as AARP to educate consumers on 
how to avoid being scammed and, when neces-
sary, take legal action against known scammers. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
