60Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.2 Products
We are committed to delivering products, solutions, and services that help 
organizations boost efficiency and minimize environmental impact.
Driving Energy Efficiency  
in and with Our Services  
and Devices
We are focused on and committed to increasing 
computing power per unit of energy consumed 
across the services and devices that we offer in  
the marketplace. Each new version of Windows 
offers enhancements to energy efficiency and 
power management tools, including a new Energy 
Saver Mode added to Windows 10. Third-party 
applications also have an important role to play, 
and we provide energy-smart development 
guidance and tools for developers and IT profes-
sionals developing for the Windows platform.
In FY15, Microsoft certified its first ENERGY STAR 
and EPEAT registered product, Surface Pro 3, when 
the standards were revised to bring tablets into 
scope. FY15 was also the first year for ULE 110 
certifications of mobile phones. This certification 
establishes multiple sustainability criteria for 
mobile phones, including packaging, materials, 
manufacturing and operations, energy efficiency 
of the power supply, health and environment, and 
end of life management. All Xbox consoles are 
configured to automatically reduce energy use 
while inactive. We also have committed to limit 
Xbox energy consumption in dashboard and 
media play.
 
We work to reduce the environmental impacts of 
our products and services but see even greater 
opportunity to benefit the environment at scale by 
delivering products, solutions, and services that 
help our customers’ organizations boost efficiency 
and minimize their environmental impact. 
Cloud and Azure
As a carbon neutral cloud services provider, 
Microsoft offers organizations a carbon-efficient 
and carbon neutral alternative to running their 
own private datacenters. Moving to Microsoft 
cloud services for Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft 
SharePoint, and Microsoft Dynamics CRM capabili-
ties can help businesses reduce energy use and 
carbon emissions by 30 to 90 percent per user 
versus running on-premises. 
With Microsoft Azure, businesses can use  
Microsoft carbon neutral datacenters for  
on-demand compute and storage, helping save 
energy costs and reduce their company’s carbon 
footprint while also reducing the capital costs 
associated with purchasing hardware and infra-
structure. The Microsoft cloud is also connecting 
public and private data sources with the privacy, 
security, and control needed for cities to have 
effective cross-departmental collaboration  
and resource sharing for greater efficiency; the 
scalability and cost-effectiveness of cloud services 
help reduce costs without cutting essential  
services. Organizations that invest in Microsoft 
Azure will be able to harvest information and data 
as resources to help service increasing populations 
more efficiently and with less waste. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
