42Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
5.2 Privacy and Data Security
Microsoft has a longstanding commitment to ensuring the privacy and security of 
our customers’ data. We have a strong set of privacy principles and practices that 
apply company-wide. We incorporate privacy considerations into our design and 
development processes, offer our customers meaningful privacy choices, and 
responsibly manage and protect the customer data that we store. 
We’ve led our industry with privacy protections 
such as our commitment to not scan Microsoft 
Outlook or other email services for purposes of 
targeting online advertising. In October 2014, 
Microsoft became one of the first companies to 
sign the Student Privacy Pledge developed by 
the Future of Privacy Forum and the Software & 
Information Industry Association to establish a 
common set of principles to protect the privacy  
of student information.
In our ongoing effort to give customers meaning-
ful data about when and how we collect and use 
personal data, in June 2015 we updated the Micro-
soft Services Agreement to provide one place to 
understand the privacy protections in place for 
most of Microsoft’s consumer services, including 
Bing, Cortana, OneDrive, Outlook.com, Skype, 
and Xbox Live. At the same time, we updated 
the Microsoft Privacy Statement to provide a 
single, straightforward resource for understanding 
Microsoft’s commitments for protecting individual 
privacy with these services. 
Our privacy protections have gained external 
recognition. Microsoft is the first major cloud 
provider to adopt—and gain independent  
verification for meeting—the world’s first  
international standard for cloud privacy, the ISO/
IEC 27018 standard developed by the International 
Organization for Standardization to establish a 
uniform, international approach to protecting 
privacy for personal data stored in the cloud.  
This builds on past efforts: in April 2014 we 
received confirmation from European data  
protection authorities that Microsoft’s enterprise 
cloud contracts are in line with “model clauses” 
under EU privacy laws regarding the international 
transfer of data, becoming the first company to 
receive such recognition. 
With ongoing concerns about government  
surveillance practices over the past several years, 
Microsoft has categorically stated that we do not 
provide any government with direct and unfet-
tered access to our customers’ data, and we  
don’t provide any back doors. As we’ve publicly 
disclosed, if a government wants our customers’ 
data, it must serve us with the appropriate warrant, 
court order, or subpoena targeted at specific 
accounts and identifiers. We reject requests that 
don’t meet these requirements, and we only 
provide the data specified in the legal order. 
Measures we’ve taken over the past two years  
to ensure we continue to meet our commitments 
to data privacy and security and earn customers’ 
trust include expanding our use of encryption 
across our services, providing choice and transpar-
ency on data location, and strengthening legal 
protections for customers. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
