34Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Microsoft Digital Literacy Curriculum
Microsoft’s free online Digital Literacy curriculum  
is available in 10 languages that together are 
spoken by more than half the world’s population. 
The user friendly curriculum spans a broad range 
of technology skills at Basic, Standard, and 
Advanced levels. 
Computer Science Education—TEALS
Technology Education and Literacy in Schools 
(TEALS) pairs computer science professionals with 
classroom teachers to teach computer science in 
high schools across the country, either in-person 
or via Skype. Started in 2009 by a Microsoft 
employee who developed and ran the program in 
his spare time, TEALS was embraced and adopted 
by Microsoft in 2011. Doubling in size every year, 
in the 2014–2015 school year TEALS reached 6,000 
students in 131 schools in 18 states, and to date 
has helped teach more than 12,500 high school 
students introductory or advanced placement (AP) 
computer science with an industry-recognized 
curriculum developed by the University of California 
at Berkeley and the University of Washington. 
TEALS recruits volunteer technology professionals 
from Microsoft and across the industry. 
Microsoft Imagine
Microsoft Imagine connects aspiring student 
developers of all skill levels with the tools, 
resources, and experiences they need to turn their 
innovative ideas into reality, whether it’s building 
a game, designing an app, or launching a project. 
Imagine includes the Imagine Cup, Microsoft’s 
global youth technology competition, which 
challenges students to apply their knowledge and 
passion to develop technical solutions for social 
impact, engaging games, and driving innovation.
In developing Microsoft YouthSpark, we consulted 
with government, nonprofit, and business leaders 
globally to understand the challenges young 
people face in building their lives and contributing 
to their communities. This work highlighted the 
need to go beyond addressing the “digital divide” 
and to take a more holistic approach to address 
the opportunity divide—the gap between those 
who have the skills, access, and opportunities to  
be successful and those who do not.
As we reflect on our learnings and develop- 
ments during our first three years implementing  
YouthSpark, going forward, we are focusing 
YouthSpark on creating opportunities for all  
youth to learn computing—with a top priority on 
increasing access for all youth to computer science 
education on a global scale. As technology has 
become an integral part of people’s daily lives in 
nearly all regions of the world, we’re seeing a 
growing demand—from students, parents, teach-
ers, governments, and nonprofits—to teach youth 
not only how to use technology, but also how to 
create technology and become the innovators  
and drivers of growth and opportunity in their 
communities. 
The goal of computer science education is not, 
necessarily, for everyone to become a computer 
scientist or a software engineer. We believe that 
all young people should have access to com-
puter science education so they can learn this 
foundational subject matter and develop the 
computational thinking skills that will be critical for 
their future. In the coming years we will focus our 
YouthSpark philanthropy, youth programs, and 
policy advocacy to advancing this cause.
 
Microsoft YouthSpark4.2
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
