Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 19
2.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals
Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals
Goal: Engaging in cross-industry forums to help us identify 
and contribute to the development of best practices.
In FY15, Microsoft’s Anti-Corruption Program Management 
Office helped lead the US Technical Advisory Group to create 
and represent the US position in the development of the 
proposed International Standards Organization (ISO) Anti-
Bribery Standard, through the American National Standards 
Institute (ANSI). The standard, once finalized and published, will 
help prevent corruption by enabling companies to consistently 
create and evaluate anti-bribery programs, identify and 
remediate areas for improvement, and demonstrate program 
effectiveness. Microsoft is also engaged in promoting anti-
corruption initiatives among intergovernmental organizations 
and multinational companies through Microsoft’s membership 
in the World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption 
Initiative (PACI) as an industry partner.  
Goal: Maintaining or increasing dialogue between 
stakeholders and the company. 
FY15 marked an especially active year for proactively 
consulting with institutional investors and other shareholders 
in the wake of leadership changes. We sought feedback and 
input from a broad range of our investors, including public 
pension funds and leaders among the growing number of 
institutional investors focused on environmental, social, 
and governance issues. With the publication of our 2015 
Citizenship Report, we also launched a new Transparency 
Hub to make it easier for stakeholders to quickly access 
and understand our broad range of citizenship-related 
disclosures. 
Goal: Continuing to enhance our corporate governance 
principles and policies to serve the interests of our 
shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Our annual corporate governance cycle begins with review-
ing governance best practices, regulatory developments, 
and our own policies and practices. This analysis informs the 
annual update of our governance framework and policies.  
Acting in line with Microsoft’s long-standing corporate 
governance philosophy, in August 2015 the Board adopted a 
new “Proxy Access for Director Nominations” bylaw.
• Advancing a project to simplify policies and make it 
easier for employees to find and use policies.
• Launching a campaign to increase employee knowledge 
and use of the Microsoft ethics hotline and escalation 
processes and to emphasize Microsoft’s zero tolerance 
policy for retaliation.
• Continuing to enhance our corporate governance 
principles and policies to serve the interests of our 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
• Continuing to implement new regulatory and disclosure 
requirements adopted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Goal: Monitoring and implementing the regulatory and 
disclosure requirements adopted under the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. 
We expect the Securities and Exchange Commission to con-
tinue to adopt regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. 
These include disclosure of pay ratios, pay for performance, 
hedging, and executive compensation recovery. We previ-
ously implemented polices relating to hedging and executive 
compensation recovery and will monitor and implement any 
further requirements in these areas. We also filed our second 
annual Conflict Minerals Report in compliance with regula-
tions called for under Dodd-Frank.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
