Is it consistent with 
our core values and 
the Standards?
We expect you to think 
through the issues and to 
use available resources 
to help, including our core 
values and the Standards.
Is it legal?
We are not expecting 
you to be a lawyer or legal 
expert. We do expect 
you to ask questions and 
seek guidance if you 
are not sure.
Am I comfortable with 
others finding out 
about my decision?
If you would not be 
comfortable sharing your 
decision with friends, 
family, and co-workers, it 
probably is not the right 
thing to do.
Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 14
2.2 Commitment to Ethics and  
Standards of Business Conduct 
Business Conduct and  
Compliance Program
Microsoft’s Office of Legal Compliance is respon-
sible for our Business Conduct and Compliance 
Program, working closely with the rest of Microsoft 
Legal and Corporate Affairs, Finance, Human 
Resources, Internal Audit, and other groups 
focused on ensuring compliance. We have more 
than 50 people whose primary role is investigat-
ing potential breaches of company policy, and an 
additional 120 people whose primary role is com-
pliance. In addition, we sometimes retain outside 
law firms to conduct or assist with investigations. 
This is a reflection of the size and complexity of 
our business and the seriousness with which we 
take meeting our obligations.
Across Microsoft’s business, we build and monitor 
internal controls to identify and mitigate risks of 
unethical and non-compliant conduct, perform 
regular internal audits, require multiple levels of 
approval for contracting and expenditures, and 
maintain internal compliance scorecards that 
affect key leaders’ performance compensation. 
Our responsibility is to take steps to train our 
employees, to build controls to prevent and  
detect unethical and non-compliant conduct,  
and when we identify or learn of concerns or 
improper conduct, to investigate them fully  
and take appropriate action to remediate.
Microsoft offers employees and external parties 
multiple ways to report compliance concerns. 
These include the following:
• Calling a toll-free telephone integrity hotline 
that is staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by 
a third-party vendor (operators are available 
 to receive calls in 49 languages).
• Submitting an online report through a publicly 
available website operated by the vendor (the 
landing page for the site is in 16 languages and 
the online reporting tool is in 37 languages).
• Emailing the Office of Legal Compliance  
directly at buscond@microsoft.com. 
• Emailing, calling, or faxing the 
 Director of Compliance.
We expect you to be well informed and exercise good judgment 
when making business decisions for Microsoft. Before making a 
business decision, ask yourself the following questions:
Example of Microsoft Guidance  
to Employees on Making Ethical Decisions
If you cannot answer “yes” or you are not sure, do not make the  
decision or take the action until you get additional help and guidance.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
