23Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.2 Compensation and Benefits
Microsoft offers competitive compensation and benefits to attract the world’s best 
talent in over 100 countries, and rewards people for great results. Our Performance 
and Development approach and rewards program applies to Microsoft employees 
globally at every level of the organization to the extent permitted by local law. 
Stock-based compensation is a key component of 
our rewards programs at Microsoft as it provides 
an ownership stake in the company’s success. Over 
85 percent of Microsoft employees are eligible 
for an annual stock award. In addition, 90 percent 
of Microsoft’s employees are eligible for a cash 
bonus. Bonuses focus on an individual’s business 
impact over the past year.
We offer a wide assortment of flexible benefits. 
Due to local law, local conditions, and employee 
preferences, some benefits vary by location, but 
following is a representative sample of the array of 
benefits we offer: 
• Industry-leading health insurance coverage in 
the US with no employee premiums; and best-
in-class medical and dental coverage in which 
Microsoft funds eligible employees’ Health 
Savings Account for tax-free savings for current 
or future medical expenses.
• Family benefits including health coverage for 
spouses, dependents, and domestic partners; 
subsidy for nearby childcare programs and 
back-up care for children, adults, and elders; 
Flexible Spending Accounts for healthcare 
and childcare; onsite lactation facilities; and 
adoption assistance and adoptive parent leave.
• Voluntary retirement savings plans, 
including plans in which the company makes 
contributions (such as 401(k) Plan matches for 
US employees of 50 cents on every dollar up  
to 6 percent of employee contributions). 
• Employee Stock Purchase Plan offering 
employees discounted shares of  
Microsoft stock.
• Life insurance and accident insurance.
• Family and medical leave programs, including 
paid and unpaid maternity and paternity leave 
programs and personal and compassionate 
leave, subject to local laws. 
• Paid time off (vacation and sick days) and paid 
sabbaticals for qualifying employees.
• Flexible work programs, including flexible 
schedules, telecommuting, and  
job-sharing options.
• Voluntary benefits including additional 
disability insurance and group legal coverage.
• Employee discounts and friends and family 
discounts for Microsoft products. 
• Discount programs for shopping, dining,  
and travel.
• Commute options, including free or subsidized 
mass transit tickets, access to free employee 
shuttles, and on-campus bike shops and  
secure storage. 
• Education assistance for eligible employees.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
