29Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.5 Employee Wellness and Occupational Health and Safety
Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ well-being with  
comprehensive benefits to help employees maximize their physical,  
financial, and social wellness.
These benefits include:
• The Microsoft Ergonomics Program, offering 
employees ergonomic assessment and training 
programs and special furniture, equipment, and 
software for medical needs.
• The Microsoft CARES employee assistance 
program, offering free access to services 
including personal and family counseling, stress 
management, and referrals for child/elder care.
• Fitness benefits that fund gym memberships 
or fitness-related equipment and activities and 
onsite recreational and fitness opportunities.
• Free onsite “Know Your Numbers” health 
screening events, providing employees and 
their adult dependents with screening for risks 
of heart disease, diabetes, high cholesterol, 
and high blood pressure as well as onsite 
mammography screenings.
• Healthy dining options, including a new 
Real Easy Wellness labeling system used in 
all Microsoft cafes with color coding to flag 
healthier and less healthy options.
• Access for Microsoft employees and their 
dependents to weight management,  
tobacco cessation, and chronic disease 
management programs.
• An onsite health clinic at our Redmond, 
Washington headquarters campus, offering 
comprehensive health and wellness services 
and clinics at some other locations.
In addition to our wellness programs, Microsoft’s 
Health and Safety program integrates appropriate 
safety and health practices into our operations, 
and works for continual improvement in employee 
health and safety. As part of this commitment, 
health and safety professionals assess the safety 
risks of Microsoft work activities and engage with 
workers and management to implement safe  
work practices, hazard controls, and training 
to minimize safety risks. They also assess new 
workspaces as they are constructed and existing 
workspaces periodically to ensure sound design-
for-safety principles are followed and needed 
controls are implemented effectively. As part 
of this approach, Microsoft involves employees 
and managers in Health and Safety Committees 
specific to our datacenters, retail operations, 
and our manufacturing facilities.
Over the past several years, we have worked  
to enhance our capacities to protect employee 
health and safety as the diversity of our operations 
has grown and exposed our employees to new 
types of workplaces. As described in our Responsi-
ble Sourcing and Manufacturing chapter, we 
created a global manufacturing team of experts  
in industrial safety, occupational health, and 
environmental sustainability to work across  
Microsoft’s newly acquired device factories to  
align programs and priorities, ensure excellence  
in environment, health, and safety, and drive 
continuous improvement. In FY14, our metrics  
for occupational injuries and illnesses were com-
parable to or less than injury-illness rates from 
other companies with similar operations. Our US 
facilities had an Injury-Incident Rate of 0.14 and  
a Lost-Day Rate of 0.02 (our 12-month rolling 
average for July 1, 2013—June 30, 2014) based  
on US OSHA rules for recordkeeping).
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
