11Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
This 2015 Microsoft Citizenship Report explains our policies, program, and 
performance on our material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issue areas 
as well as how we address other important corporate responsibility issues. As you read 
this report, we welcome your unique perspective about the issues you expect to see 
addressed in the future. Please email your comments to mcitizen@microsoft.com.
Scope
Unless otherwise stated, information in this report 
covers all of Microsoft’s global operations during 
our fiscal year 2015 (July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015).
Standards
This report contains Standard Disclosures from  
the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, which we used to prepare 
this report. Please see our online GRI G4 Index  
for detailed data and additional information.  
The human rights-related disclosures are based  
on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights Reporting Framework. In addition, 
this report serves as Microsoft’s annual Communi-
cation on Progress under the United Nations (UN) 
Global Compact. The following table describes the 
location of relevant report content for each of the 
UN Global Compact’s 10 principles.
About This Report
UN Global Compact Index
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 
human rights; and
Our People, Human Rights,  
Responsible Sourcing
Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our People, Human Rights,  
Responsible Sourcing
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 
of the right to collective bargaining;
Our People, Responsible Sourcing
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Our People, Responsible Sourcing
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Our People, Responsible Sourcing
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our People, Responsible Sourcing
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental Sustainability
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental Sustainability,  
Responsible Sourcing
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  
friendly technologies.
Environmental Sustainability
Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including  
extortion and bribery.
Responsible Sourcing,
Ethical Business Conduct  
and Governance
1.5
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
