Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 15
2.2 Commitment to Ethics and  
Standards of Business Conduct 
Preventing retaliation is critical to the Business 
Conduct and Compliance Program. Microsoft 
maintains and communicates an open-door p 
olicy and strictly prohibits retaliation against 
complainants who raise a compliance concern in 
good faith. Microsoft is committed to handling all 
inquiries discreetly and preserving the confidenti-
ality of anyone requesting guidance or reporting  
a possible violation to the extent possible and 
within the limits allowed by the laws.
Anti-corruption
Microsoft’s Standards of Business Conduct and 
Anti-Corruption Policy for Representatives 
include strong commitments to observing the 
standards of conduct set forth in the US  
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the applicable 
anti-corruption and anti-money laws of all the 
countries in which we operate. We prohibit cor-
ruption of government officials and the payment 
of bribes or kickbacks of any kind, whether in 
dealings with public officials or individuals in the 
private sector. We require partners to provide 
anti-corruption training to all employees who 
resell, distribute, or market Microsoft products or 
services and provide them a free, online training 
course available in multiple languages. Microsoft’s 
Supplier Code of Conduct also includes strong 
ethics and anti-corruption provisions, which are 
highlighted in an online Supplier Code of Conduct 
Training that suppliers must take. These are both 
available in 33 languages.
Beyond clearly communicating our expectations, 
Microsoft vets third-party representatives and 
certain suppliers to help ensure that we only 
engage those that are legitimate businesses with 
a reputation for integrity. We conducted a risk 
assessment to identify higher-risk representative 
types, which were then vetted along with many 
other lower-risk representative types. This includes 
channel partners, consultants, lobbyists, and 
other third parties engaged by Microsoft and 
its subsidiaries and joint ventures worldwide. In 
addition, we continue to have third-party reviews 
conducted for all new suppliers. Since the vetting 
program’s inception, Microsoft has screened nearly 
100,000 representatives and suppliers to enable 
Microsoft to monitor the risk profile and drive risk 
mitigation efforts accordingly.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
