4Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
More than 99 percent of Microsoft employees completed 
annual training on our Standards of Business Conduct, 
which is available globally in 19 languages.
Microsoft’s total annual giving surpassed $1 billion for the 
second year in a row, with cash donations of $135 million and 
in-kind donations worth $922 million.
We surpassed the 3-year goal for our YouthSpark initiative 
by creating opportunities for education, employment, and 
entrepreneurship for 307 million youth worldwide.
Microsoft maintained our active membership in the 
Global Network Initiative, a collaborative effort regarding 
practical steps and policies technology and communication 
companies can adopt to respect and advance the freedom 
of expression and privacy rights of their users when faced 
with government demands. We were also the first major 
cloud provider to gain independent verification for meeting 
the world’s first international standard for cloud privacy.
In working to protect the rights of vulnerable populations, 
we launched a free cloud-based version of PhotoDNA, 
to further increase access to this technology used to help 
identify and remove child sexual abuse images from 
the Internet.
In FY14, we completed 314 third-party audits and Microsoft 
assessments of 138 Tier 1 and high- and medium-risk Tier 
2 hardware suppliers. Critical/serious nonconformance 
findings are detailed in this report. In all of these instances, 
the suppliers instituted corrective action plans that were 
approved by Microsoft, and follow-up audits confirmed that 
the suppliers were implementing the corrective action plans.
We continued to expand our work with our hardware 
suppliers to build their capabilities on environmental health 
and safety management and to improve factory workers’ 
living environments.
We also continued to enhance our work to advance 
responsible sourcing with our non-hardware suppliers, 
including new policies designed to ensure that our U.S. 
suppliers provide paid leave to their employees who 
handle our work.
We met our carbon neutrality commitment through  
internal efficiency projects, the purchase of more than  
3 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of renewable energy  
(equal to 100 percent of our global electricity use), and  
a carbon offset project portfolio representing more than 
600,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
Eighty-four percent of employees polled said they would 
recommend Microsoft as a great place to work.
The percentage of minorities in our global workforce grew 
from 39 to 41 percent and the percentage of Microsoft 
senior executive women and minorities increased from 
27 to 30 percent.
Ethical Business Conduct  
and Governance
Our People
Empowering Communities
Responsible Sourcing  
and Manufacturing Environmental Sustainability 
Human Rights 
FY15 Select Performance Highlights
