43Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Privacy and Data Security
Microsoft has also worked to champion our view 
that while technology has a critical role itself in 
protecting people’s rights and keeping people 
safe, technology and the Internet must be gov-
erned by law. To that end, both on our own and in 
collaboration with others in our industry, Microsoft 
is pushing for reform in government surveillance 
practices. We fought for and won the right to 
increase our disclosure on the volume of national 
security orders for customer data we receive 
from the US government. We’ve very publicly 
advocated that governments need to create a 
new international legal framework to ensure that 
governments seek information about the private 
citizens of other participating countries only 
pursuant to legal rules and due process. 
Throughout FY15, we engaged in an ongoing 
legal challenge to the US government’s attempt 
to mandate that we turn over a customer’s email 
content stored in our datacenter located in Ireland. 
We have gained support from more than two 
dozen leading technology and media companies 
to argue that digital information must be afforded 
the same legal protections as physical documents 
and correspondence. Beyond addressing this spe-
cific case, we have also advocated about the ways 
to best protect privacy, ensure that governments 
keep people safe, and respect national sovereignty 
while preserving the global nature of the Internet.
To help inform the public debate about the 
best ways to balance privacy and security and 
in keeping with our longstanding commitment 
to transparency, we publish a semi-annual Law 
Enforcement Requests Report and clearly outline 
our well-documented practices for responding 
to government demands for customer data. 
The report includes the number of demands we 
receive and the number of accounts or identifiers 
that may be affected by these demands. We also 
provide details on the number of demands we 
complied with and, if we complied, whether we 
provided content or non-content data. In addition, 
as a result of a concerted effort by Microsoft and 
our industry partners, we are now permitted to 
publish data about the number of legal demands 
we receive from the US government pursuant to 
national security laws. 
5.3 Global Network Initiative
Microsoft is a founding member and sits on the board of the Global Network 
Initiative (GNI), a collaborative effort between ICT companies, civil society 
organizations, socially responsible investors, and academics. GNI provides a set of 
Principles and Implementation Guidelines regarding practical steps and policies ICT 
companies can adopt to respect and advance the freedom of expression and privacy 
rights of their users when faced with governmental demands. 
The GNI provides for a series of independent 
assessments conducted every other year by an 
independent assessor accredited by the GNI 
Board, on how its member companies are imple-
menting the GNI Principles. The independent 
assessor reviews the policies and procedures 
adopted by the company in accordance with the 
GNI guidelines and looks at how the policies and 
procedures were implemented in real-world cases. 
Based on the results of the most recent assess-
ment and engagement with Microsoft, the GNI 
Board determined that Microsoft is compliant with 
the GNI Principles. The assessment found that the 
systems, policies, and procedures that Microsoft 
relies upon to implement the GNI Principles 
are both mature and subject to ongoing review 
with an eye to continuous improvement. The 
GNI’s public report on the results of its Phase III 
company assessments is available online.
As part of our commitment to GNI and under 
our Global Human Rights Statement, Microsoft 
has independent experts in business and human 
rights conduct Human Rights Impact Assessments 
(HRIAs) of specific parts of our business. The HRIAs 
include independent research, internal interviews, 
and engagement with external stakeholders to 
identify relevant human rights risks and oppor-
tunities for specific Microsoft products, services, 
business relationships, and markets. 
5.2
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
