30Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.6 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals
Goal: Continuing to advance our culture of working 
together to drive meaningful impact for our teams, 
business, and customers and to adjust our approach to 
Performance and Development programs, as needed, 
in response to employee feedback and evolving 
business needs.
In FY15, under the leadership of our CEO, our HR organiza-
tion worked with teams across Microsoft to explore, define, 
and foster a culture to help us achieve our mission and 
strategic goals. Our CEO has articulated his vision of 
culture in employee Q&A sessions and all company emails. 
Moreover, in FY15, we launched our first annual “//oneweek” 
Global Hackathon to bring together diverse individuals to 
collaborate on developing innovative new ways for Micro-
soft to do business and solve customer and social problems.
Goal: Continuing to offer industry-leading health care 
in the United States with no employee premiums and 
continuing to provide multi-modal educational materials 
to teach employees and their dependents how to optimize 
their health care and overall wellness.
We’ve maintained these benefits and continue to invest in 
preventative and life-optimizing wellness programs for our 
employees and in many cases their family as well.
Goal: Creating learning that supports our employees’ 
ability to adapt and lead in our changing company, a 
changing industry, and a changing world. 
We developed new learning opportunities on a range  
of topics from unconscious bias training to career  
development skills.
 
Goal: Driving innovation and efficiency by infusing 
diversity and inclusion into our business strategy and by 
developing innovative products and services to better 
serve the needs of a broad range of customers.
Our Senior Leadership Team conducted strategic planning 
on the business benefits of diversity and has rolled out new 
strategies to gain business value from diversity and inclusion 
across core parts of our business.
• Recruiting and developing talent with world-changing 
capabilities.
• Leading the culture transformation toward a growth 
mindset and helping drive behaviors to support the 
cultural attributes of diversity and Inclusion, customer 
obsession, One Microsoft, and making a difference.
• Making Microsoft an exceptional place to work through 
rewards, work environment and perks, and a clear 
employee value proposition. 
• Driving transformational leadership by elevating the 
value, accountability, and impact of leadership at 
Microsoft, including defining and driving leadership 
attributes that align to culture.
• Helping Microsoft’s employees achieve more by 
transforming HR through data, technology, process 
excellence, and investment in our people.
Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
