62Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Design for Green Devices
The Safety, Compliance, and Sustainability team 
within the Microsoft Devices Group incorporates 
environmental and safety principles and processes 
in the design and production of our devices and 
product packaging. The team works with design 
groups through a Design for Green initiative  
to evaluate and encourage the use of more 
environmentally benign materials, increase  
the recyclability of our devices and packaging,  
and minimize material use. The team provides 
guidance on alternative materials and other ways 
to address environmental impacts. We also require 
our suppliers to identify every material that’s in our 
products and to follow a comprehensive list of 
restricted substances specifications to avoid 
hazardous materials. 
To address sustainability in packaging, we’ve 
designed packaging for Xbox One, Surface, and 
our hardware peripherals to reduce the use of 
materials and replace plastics with paperboard 
packaging and materials from sugarcane waste. 
We also set standards of a minimum of 50 percent 
recycled content (25 percent of which must be 
post-consumer) for paperboard packaging and a 
minimum of 25 percent post-consumer content 
for rigid plastic packaging. 
Device Take-Back  
and Recycling
Microsoft is committed to meeting and going 
beyond government standards on take-back and 
responsible recycling or disposal of electronics, 
batteries, and packaging. We are a member of 
more than 145 government-mandated recycling 
schemes and producer responsibility organizations 
worldwide. In addition, we also offer several volun-
tary take-back and recycling programs, including 
incentives to bring used electronics to Microsoft 
Stores for recycling. We offer a comprehensive 
online tool to help consumers understand the 
recycling options available to them in their specific 
location. Where no local options exist, consumers 
can use the tool to contact Microsoft and we will 
generate a postage-paid e-label for them to use  
to send their equipment to a contracted recycler  
for free.
Microsoft also offers two programs, Microsoft 
Authorized Refurbisher (MAR) and Microsoft 
Registered Refurbisher Program (RRP), that help 
refurbishers extend the life of used PCs by provid-
ing them with commercial licenses for Microsoft 
software and non-profit organization licenses for 
those serving non-profits and schools. Through 
these programs, Microsoft and our refurbisher 
partners provided nonprofits and schools access 
to 746,140 refurbished computers in FY15.
Microsoft works to responsibly reuse, refurbish, or 
recycle used computers and electronics from our 
own operations and used personal and electronic 
items from our employees. For our own e-waste 
and the e-waste we collect from employees and 
customers, Microsoft requires external certification 
of the recycling partners that we contract with  
and bans any landfilling or exportation of used 
electronics that they collect. The recycling partners 
directly contracted by Microsoft to manage our 
e-waste and the e-waste we collect from employees 
and customers must meet stringent specifications. 
These include a product landfill and export ban. 
Microsoft also requires the recyclers to be certified 
by a recognized scheme such as ISO 14001, R2, or 
E-Steward; conduct assessments of their down-
stream partners; track the material types and 
quantities that they process to final disposition;  
and provide a certificate of destruction. Finally, 
Microsoft forbids the use of prison or other  
involuntary labor to staff recycling operations. 
7.2 Products
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
