FY15
FY13
FY14
149
131 138
278
217
314
Number of suppliers 
audited and assessed
Total number of 
third-party audits and 
Microsoft assessments
52Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
 
 Enhancing Workplace  
Experiences
There is growing recognition among industry 
advocates that compliance audits and assessments 
are not a long-term solution to consistent perfor-
mance. We seek to establish best practices over 
time by building supplier capabilities through 
training and sharing experiences and best  
practices, including detailed guidelines on how  
to improve factory workers’ living environments 
and environmental health and safety systems. An 
example of this is the implementation of our Tier 1 
Model Factory Scorecard, created in FY13 with 
input from worker surveys and suppliers to identify 
best practices in living and working conditions. 
Through this collaborative effort and quarterly 
scorecard tracking progress, we are pleased to 
report that in FY15 all of our Tier 1 factories met our 
target performance goal of 95 percent or more on 
the Model Factory Scorecard, and we are now 
working with those factories to help them achieve 
100 percent compliance.
Over the past several years, we also significantly 
expanded job-related and life skills training 
opportunities in one or more of our Tier 1 supplier 
factories, including:
• Creating a factory-specific curricula and 
delivery model for our China YouthSpark 
Information Technology (IT) skills training 
program. By the end of the pilot, December 
2013 to December 2014, a total of 6,731 workers 
(4,451 online and 2,280 classroom)  had taken 
the class.
• Providing reproductive health education 
programs at all of our Tier 1 suppliers through 
the HERproject (Health Enables Returns) run by 
Business for Social Responsibility. In FY15, we 
trained a total of 7,685 workers, bringing the 
total number of workers trained since we 
launched in FY12 to 179,598 workers.
• Piloting line leader capability training to 
improve front-line supervisors’ communication 
skills and management effectiveness. The pilot 
program trained 30 line leaders, each 
responsible for on average 30 workers (in total 
affecting 900 workers).
• Rolling out training in parenting programs to 
support migrant parent workers who may be 
far away from their families. This program  
helps the migrant parents build and maintain 
meaningful relationships with their children to 
ensure that they are not only materially looked 
after, but emotionally as well. In FY15, the nine 
suppliers rolled out the training to all their 
workers, especially targeting their migrant 
workers. By the end of June 2015, a total of 
1,600 workers participated in this training.
6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability
in Our Device and Supply Chain Group
SEA Audits and Assessments
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
