FY13
$1.9 Billion
FY14
$2 Billion
FY15
$2.3 Billion
55Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
6.4 Responsible Sourcing with Indirect Suppliers
As with our SEA Program for hardware suppliers, Microsoft’s Global Procurement 
Group’s responsible sourcing initiatives span a broad range of work to ensure 
compliance, advance sustainability in procurement processes, and pursue 
partnerships with suppliers. 
Microsoft screens our indirect (that is, non-
hardware) suppliers on an ongoing basis against 
23 different ethical, social, and environmental 
risks by country and by commodity category, 
and applies assurance requirements for suppliers 
found to pose the highest risks. Among these, we 
have dedicated supplier training and assurance 
programs related to anti-corruption and privacy 
and security.
For our top strategic suppliers, our Responsible 
Sourcing program monitors compliance with 
our Supplier Code of Conduct through quarterly 
scorecards that are integrated into their business 
dashboards and review. For our suppliers of prod-
ucts and services that directly touch our customers 
(for example, our outsourced customer service 
and support) the program ensures compliance 
through onsite assessments. These suppliers 
also face additional Responsible Sourcing 
Requirements to issue annual Corporate Social 
Responsibility reports that include metrics drawn 
from the Global Reporting Initiative. 
Finally, another significant requirement launched 
in FY15 and being rolled out into FY16 involves 
new procurement standards to ensure that a wide 
variety of suppliers that do business with Microsoft 
in the US provide their employees who handle 
our work with at least 15 days of paid leave each 
year. We believe we were the first large company 
to take this approach, and we gained significant 
attention for the move from the media, policymak-
ers, and other companies. We are working to be 
thoughtful to ensure the changes don’t undermine 
the breadth and diversity of our suppliers as we 
implement the new requirement.
Microsoft Spending with Minority-, Disabled-, 
Veteran-, and Woman-Owned Businesses
Supplier Diversity 
Microsoft has a long-standing and strong 
commitment to source from historically dis-
advantaged groups. Our Procurement team 
is committed to increasing our spending with 
diverse suppliers as part of our Supplier Diver-
sity Program. In FY15, Microsoft spent $2.3 
billion with minority-, disabled-, veteran-, and 
woman-owned businesses, placing Microsoft 
in the top 20 companies globally for spending 
with diverse suppliers. We also have focused 
programs in place to encourage diversity 
among the law firms we do business with and 
to increase the diversity of banks and financial 
institutions we use.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
