6Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and 
every organization on the planet to achieve more. Our strategy is to build best-in-
class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world.
Founded in 1975, we operate worldwide and have offices in more than 100 
countries. We develop, license, and support a wide range of software products, 
services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and 
enhanced value to people’s lives. We offer an array of services, including cloud-
based services, to consumers and businesses. We design, manufacture, and sell 
devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and we deliver relevant 
online advertising to a global audience.
Our products include operating systems for 
computing devices, servers, phones, and other 
intelligent devices; server applications for distrib-
uted computing environments; cross-device 
productivity applications; business solution  
applications; desktop and server management 
tools; software development tools; video games; 
and online advertising. We also design and sell 
hardware including PCs, tablets, gaming and 
entertainment consoles, phones, other intelligent 
devices, and related accessories. We offer cloud-
based solutions that provide customers with 
software, services, platforms, and content.  
We also provide consulting and product and 
solution support services, and we train and certify 
computer system integrators and developers.
As of June 30, 2015, we employed approximately 
118,000 people on a full-time basis, 60,000 in the 
United States and 58,000 internationally. Of the 
total employed people, 39,000 were in product 
research and development, 29,000 in sales  
and marketing, 32,000 in product support and 
consulting services, 8,000 in manufacturing and 
1.1 Our Business
distribution, and 10,000 in general and administra-
tion. We develop most of our products and services 
internally through three engineering groups.
• The Applications and Services Engineering 
Group focuses on broad applications and 
services core technologies in productivity, 
communication, education, search, and other 
information categories.
• The Cloud and Enterprise Engineering 
Group focuses on development of our cloud 
infrastructure, server, database, customer 
relationship management (CRM), enterprise 
resource planning (ERP), management, 
development tools, and other business process 
applications and services for enterprises.
• The Windows and Devices Engineering Group 
focuses on our Windows platform across 
devices of all types, hardware development of 
our devices—including Xbox consoles, Surface 
devices, Lumia phones, non-Lumia phones, 
Surface Hub, Microsoft Band, and other 
hardware products and accessories— 
and associated online marketplaces.
During FY15, our research and development 
expense was US $12.0 billion, 13 percent of 
revenue. To carry out our strategy, our research 
and development efforts focus on three intercon-
nected ambitions:
 
• Reinvent productivity and business processes.
 
• Build the intelligent cloud platform.
 
• Create more personal computing.
In addition to our main research and development 
operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. 
Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest 
computer science research organizations, and 
works in close collaboration with top universities 
around the world to advance the state of the art  
in computer science, providing us a unique  
perspective on future technology trends and 
contributing to our innovation.
Detailed, updated information about Microsoft’s 
business, operations, and workforce is 
available here.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
