50Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
After the initial baseline assessment, the SEA  
team monitors the performance of all directly 
contracted suppliers. Third-party auditors audit 
SEA conformance with our Tier 1 suppliers annu-
ally and our Tier 2 suppliers based on their risk 
level. Microsoft’s SEA team supplements these 
third-party audits with regular onsite assessments 
of Tier 1 factories and high- and medium-risk  
Tier 2 component suppliers. 
In cases when nonconformances are detected, our 
SEA team works closely with suppliers to develop 
corrective action plans to resolve detected issues, 
including building needed capabilities through 
education and training. Suppliers are required  
to identify the root cause, establish a corrective 
course of action, and implement preventive 
actions for all issues found. Suppliers must  
correct issues within specific deadlines based  
on the severity of the nonconformance or risk 
termination of our business.
Beyond auditing, learning directly from workers is a 
key priority. In FY14, we launched an anonymous 
and factory-independent worker grievance hotline 
pilot project. This program continued to scale and 
increase in quality and efficiency in FY15, though  
a new partnership with China Labor Support 
Network. In its first year of operation, we rolled  
out the hotline in five Tier 1 factories and one  
Tier 2 factory. The hotline launch included worker 
orientations to encourage use of the hotline and  
to encourage factory management to consider  
the hotline as a resource for workplace labor and 
environment, health, and safety issues. In its first 
year of operation, the hotline received a total of  
232 inquiries. The three most frequent topics were 
related to wages and benefits, factory procedure 
and policy, and living conditions. Starting in FY16, 
we will make this hotline available to the rest of our 
Tier 1 suppliers in China and select Tier 2 suppliers.
 
SEA Audit and  
Assessment Findings
In FY15, we completed 314 third-party audits and 
Microsoft assessments of 138 suppliers. These 
audits and assessments continue to provide us 
with insight into the needs and challenges of our 
supply chain and guide our investments in supplier 
capability and future improvements.  
In this report, we disclose all findings of critical/
serious nonconformance with our SEA require-
ments. These critical/serious findings were 
escalated to Microsoft senior management, and 
the suppliers were placed on restricted status with 
no new Microsoft business awarded until the 
issues were resolved. In all instances, the suppliers 
instituted corrective action plans that were 
approved by Microsoft and follow-up audits 
confirmed that the suppliers were implementing 
the corrective action plans.
In the following SEA Audit and Assessment Results 
table, we provide year-over-year data on findings  
of critical/serious nonconformance with the require-
ments covered in these audits and assessments.
Changes in the number of audits and assessments 
conducted each year and the scope of those 
audits cause fluctuations in year-over-year  
comparisons. In addition, we are always learning 
during the course of our work, which results in 
improvements to our program and can increase 
findings. Nonetheless, to better facilitate compari-
sons going forward, this year we also report 
nonconformance percentages of suppliers audited 
in addition to reporting total findings. 
We typically see improvements in performance 
after working with suppliers on an ongoing basis 
on previously addressed issues. For the first time, 
this year we also broke out findings by new and 
existing suppliers. New suppliers are those new  
to the Microsoft Device Supply Chain and audited 
for the first time, while existing suppliers are those 
which received audits and assessments in the past. 
While informative, we emphasize that the percent-
ages are affected by our raising the bar on supplier 
performance year over year and enhancement of 
audit quality and auditor requirements.
6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability
in Our Device and Supply Chain Group
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
