40Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
5.1 Our Approach
Microsoft’s respect for human rights reflects our longstanding commitment to 
empowering individuals around the world. We work to ensure that we respect 
human rights across all aspects of our business, and we seek to apply the power 
of technology to promote human rights globally. 
Since endorsing the UN Global Compact in 2006, 
Microsoft has had a formal commitment to 
respecting all of the human rights enumerated  
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; 
International Covenant on Civil and Political  
Rights; International Covenant on Economic,  
Social and Cultural Rights; and ILO Declaration  
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
Across our business we have a wide range of 
policies, practices, and programs that relate to 
human rights, including data privacy and security, 
free expression, labor rights in our workforce and 
our supply chain, and equality and diversity.
Building on these fundamental commitments, 
Microsoft was among the first companies to align 
our human rights work with the UN Guiding Prin-
ciples on Business and Human Rights released in 
2011. Microsoft’s Global Human Rights Statement 
articulates our human rights commitments in line 
with the framework of the Guiding Principles, 
including issues related to governance, due dili-
gence, and remediation. We have long included 
human rights topics in our citizenship reporting. 
Over the past year, we participated in a multi-
stakeholder process convened under the Reporting 
and Assurance Frameworks Initiative to support the 
development of the UN Guiding Principles 
Reporting Framework.  
We have worked to apply that framework to this 
year’s report and applied the stakeholder engage-
ment and materiality assessment processes 
described in Chapter 1 to determine what the 
framework terms “salient” human rights issues to 
include. This chapter covers many of those salient 
issues: privacy and data security; our commitments 
to the Global Network Initiative principles on 
freedom of expression and privacy rights of users; 
online safety and other steps to protect the rights of 
vulnerable populations; and our commitments to 
accessible technologies. Other salient human rights 
issues are addressed in other relevant sections of 
the report, including our commitments to ethics 
and anti-corruption discussed in Chapter 2; how 
our human rights commitments apply to our 
workforce discussed in Chapter 3; our work 
empowering communities discussed in Chapter 4; 
and the work we do to apply our human rights 
commitments to our direct and indirect suppliers 
discussed in Chapter 6. We are among the first 
companies to apply the Guiding Principles  
Reporting Framework to our reporting and look 
forward to learning from other examples of how 
they are implemented to inform our approach in 
future reports. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
