In-Kind Donations
Cash
$922M
$135M
FY15
$1,057M ($1.1B)
$795M
$949M
$112M $119M
FY14
$1,067M ($1.1B)
FY13
$907M
32Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
4.1 Our Approach
Microsoft is committed to applying our technology, talent, and financial resources 
to empower communities around the planet where our employees, partners, and 
customers live and work. 
Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team devel-
ops and coordinates global strategies that are 
implemented through local citizenship teams and 
nonprofit partners to meet unique local needs 
and conditions. We focus our corporate philan-
thropy on two strategic areas that align with our 
business and where we can contribute our skills 
and resources to create meaningful impact. First, 
we seek to empower youth around the globe by 
connecting them with greater opportunities for 
education, employment, and entrepreneurship, 
with a particular focus on creating opportunities 
for all youth to learn computing. Second, we work 
at a global scale to donate technology to nonprofit 
organizations so they can do even more good. 
As a complement to our focused approach to our 
corporate philanthropy, our flexible volunteer and 
employee giving programs enable employees to 
support the causes they choose with donations 
of time, expertise, money, and software. Our 
employees regularly tell us a key factor behind 
their choice to work at Microsoft is knowing their 
personal commitment to philanthropy will be 
honored, encouraged, and matched.
We also work to use the full set of resources we 
can offer to nonprofits and communities beyond 
our contributions, product donations, and 
volunteer talent. For instance, we have active 
community engagement programs to organize 
and host nonprofit and community events at 
Total Microsoft Giving 4 
Microsoft Stores and a number of our facilities 
in cities around the world, such as the Micro-
soft New England Research and Development 
(NERD) Center in Boston. We frequently donate 
space for our nonprofit partners to hold meet-
ings and events in our facilities. We also extend 
our expertise in citizenship communications to 
nonprofit partners with trainings and resources 
on effective digital communications and use 
of social media. We also collaborate with key 
nonprofit partners on joint public relations and 
communications strategies to publicize their 
message on important causes.
For the second year in a row, our FY15 total annual 
giving surpassed $1 billion.
4 Totals are rounded to the nearest million.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
