45Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
5.5 Accessible Technology
As a reflection of our commitment to human rights and to our billions of  
users around the world, Microsoft seeks to provide products and services  
that empower people across a broad range of abilities, cultures, languages,  
and levels of economic development. 
This commitment starts with offering people 
access to technology in a language familiar  
to them that respects linguistic and cultural 
distinctions and helps sustain diverse local  
languages and cultures. Through the Microsoft 
Local Language Program, Microsoft collaborates 
with local governments, language authorities, 
universities, and NGOs to provide individuals 
access to computing in their native language.  
The local language program supports more than 
108 languages, covering 4.5 billion speakers 
around the planet. Under the program, Microsoft 
provides a range of language and translation tools 
and resources, including free Language Interface 
Packs to make Windows and Office applications 
available in local languages ranging from Albanian 
to Yoruba. 
In addition, Microsoft seeks to ensure our technol-
ogy is accessible to the more than 1 billion people 
around the world with a disability. The Microsoft 
Accessibility Standard is a company-wide policy 
that drives consideration for accessibility into the 
design, development, evaluation, and release of  
all of our products and services. Windows, Office, 
Internet Explorer, Xbox, and our other products 
and services include accessibility features and 
controls such as the Ease of Access Center in 
Windows. Beyond its own accessibility features, 
Microsoft Office 2013 includes an Accessibility 
Checker that helps users enhance the accessibility 
of their documents and presentations. We’ve 
found that many of our accessibility innovations 
and features allow us to deliver more flexible user 
experiences that benefit a wide range of our 
customers, not just those with disabilities. 
Microsoft offers guidance on accessibility to our 
users, with accessibility information available in 
over 40 languages. Microsoft Customer Support 
provides a dedicated support desk for customers 
who have disabilities or who are looking for support 
when also using assistive technology, such as screen 
readers, screen magnifiers, and speech recognition 
commands. We provide guidance to help users 
address a broad range of disabilities, including: 
• Vision impairments
• Dexterity and mobility impairments
• Hearing impairments
• Learning impairments
• Language and communication impairments
• Age-related impairments 
We are continually working to raise the aware-
ness of accessibility issues in the technology 
industry. The Microsoft Accessibility Developer 
Center provides guidance, tools, and technologies 
for developing accessible applications and web 
content. Our tools and guides help governments, 
schools, businesses, and organizations integrate 
technology for individuals with disabilities. Micro-
soft Research and product teams also collaborate 
with disability experts to unlock new uses for 
technologies that can dramatically benefit people 
with disabilities, such as helping individuals with 
paralysis communicate with their families using 
eye gaze technology and speech synthesizers on 
the Microsoft Surface. For more information, see 
the Microsoft Accessibility website.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
