Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 18
Corporate participation in the public policy process is an important and essential 
means of enhancing shareholder value and is fundamental to free and democratic 
societies. We seek to ensure our participation in the political process takes place
in the light of day and for reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders 
and the public. Our public policy engagement is guided by a publicly available 
Global Public Policy Agenda, which outlines our policy positions on issues core 
to our business. 
Microsoft is recognized as a leader for policies  
that ensure the accountability and transparency 
of our engagement in the public policy process. 
During FY15, we received the third highest rating 
in the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political 
Accountability and Disclosure, which is compiled 
annually by the Center for Political Account-
ability and the Carol and Lawrence Zicklin Center 
for Business Ethics Research at the University of 
Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business.
Microsoft has adopted Principles for 
Engagement in the Public Policy Process in 
the United States to address issues specific to 
the US political and fundraising system. Under 
those policies, we commit to disclose a semi-
annual list of election campaign expenditures, 
including financial and in-kind contributions by 
the company and MSPAC to candidates, political 
parties, political committees, and other politically 
active tax-exempt organizations, such as those 
organized under Internal Revenue Code section 
501(c)(4), as defined by applicable laws. To uphold 
our commitment to transparency of our political 
spending and contributions, we do not make 
corporate contributions to any non-candidate or 
non-party political committees organized under 
2.4 Public Policy Engagement
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code, which 
are formed solely to influence elections. We also 
make no independent political expenditures or 
electioneering communications, as permitted 
under the US Supreme Court’s Citizens United 
ruling, and we inform our trade associations that 
no Microsoft funds may pay for their independent 
expenditures or electioneering communications. 
The Political Engagement section of our 
Citizenship website provides our comprehensive 
disclosure of our political engagement policies, 
disclosure of our US political expenditures  
and contributions, and information on our  
policy-related trade association memberships. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
