68Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.5 Partnerships
Microsoft works with governments, policymakers, and NGOs around the world 
to address key environmental issues that affect our business, employees, and 
the communities we serve. We are driving policy development and research with 
a broad range of diverse groups to achieve a more sustainable future. Through 
Microsoft Research and groups we sponsor, we are working to apply information 
technology to address large-scale environmental challenges.
Public Policy Engagement on 
Climate and Energy
Recognizing the need to work to address global 
environmental challenges in broad partnerships, 
Microsoft’s Climate Change Policy Statement 
recognizes that climate change is “a serious 
challenge that requires a comprehensive and 
global response from all sectors of society.”  
Microsoft is working to advance public policies 
that promote the use of information and commu-
nication technology (ICT) to advance energy 
efficiency, spur innovation and economic  
opportunity, and contribute to practical strategies 
for mitigating climate change. For the past six 
years, our annual Global Public Policy Agenda  
has included a section supporting government  
policies that support technological advances  
and innovation to reduce energy use and limit  
the effects of climate change. This section also 
includes support for cost-effective policies that 
increase the availability of low carbon and renew-
able energy for us to use in our operations. 
We have also supported industry and multi-
stakeholder initiatives to address climate policy. 
Among these:
• We are a signatory to the Climate Declaration, a 
nonpartisan statement from the business 
community developed by Ceres and its 
Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy 
(BICEP) coalition, which notes that “tackling 
climate change is one of America’s greatest 
economic opportunities of the 21st century.” 
• We are a founding member of the Digital 
Energy & Sustainability Solutions Campaign 
(DESSC), a coalition of leading ICT companies 
and environmental NGOs. DESSC is committed 
to advancing public policies that help drive 
sustainable economic growth through ICT-
enabled energy efficiency and clean energy 
innovation.
• We serve on the board of the Global 
e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), a collaborative 
effort between leading IT companies and the 
United Nations Environment Programme and 
International Telecommunication Union. 
Microsoft has played a leadership role in the 
development of GeSI series of reports on how 
the ICT can address climate change (Smart 
2020, Smarter 2020, and Smarter 2030). The 
latest Smarter 2030 GeSI report identifies ways 
that ICT can enable a 20 percent reduction of 
global CO2 emissions by 2030. The report also 
identifies how ICT can integrate renewables into 
the grid, boost agricultural crop yields by 30 
percent, save over 300 trillion liters of water, 
and conserve 25 billion barrels of oil a year. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
