22Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Employee Poll Results
Indicator FY13 FY14 FY15
Employee response rate 89% 87% 84%
Employees who feel proud to work at Microsoft 89% 90% 90%
Employees who feel they are treated with dignity  
and respect by their managers 93% 93% 92%
Employees who would recommend Microsoft  
as a great place to work 85% 86% 84%
Employees who feel their workgroup  
values diverse opinions 86% 88% 88%
Microsoft’s global Human Resources team 
advances our policies and programs to recruit, 
retain, and develop exceptional people. This team 
includes groups focused on compensation and 
benefits, talent and organizational capability, and 
diversity and inclusion. In addition to a central 
team, HR professionals are embedded within each 
group in Microsoft to ensure that every employee 
has a clear point of contact and support on HR 
issues, from our executive managers to indi-
vidual contributors. At the end of FY15, Microsoft 
employed 117,354 people worldwide.
In FY15 we faced the challenge of responsibly 
managing reductions in our overall workforce of 
approximately 18,000 positions. This was driven by 
two goals: work simplification and Nokia Devices 
and Services integration synergies and strategic 
alignment. The reductions were spread across 
many different business units and many different 
countries. We sought to go through this process 
with the deepest respect for affected individuals 
and recognition of their service to the company. 
We offered severance to all employees, as well 
as job transition help in many locations. Around 
the world, we worked to ensure we followed local 
process and laws in each of the countries affected. 
We ask for—and act on—employee feedback in 
multiple ways, including conducting an annual 
poll of all our employees around the world. Our 
main annual global employee poll is conducted 
by a third-party vendor to protect employee 
anonymity. In FY15, nearly 85 percent of our more 
than 100,000 employees responded to the poll. 
The poll asks employees to share feedback about 
their experience working at Microsoft. Microsoft’s 
Senior Leadership Team and individual managers 
use the poll results to further improve on areas of 
strength and address opportunities for improve-
ment. We supplement the poll with additional 
quarterly “pulse” polls covering additional issues.
Our Approach3.1
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
