24Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.3 Global Diversity and Inclusion
For over two decades, our Global Diversity and Inclusion Office has evolved and 
enhanced the company’s diversity and inclusion initiatives to meet the changing 
needs of our workforce and business. We have a deep commitment to create an 
inclusive environment where all employees can do their best work. This commitment 
is anchored around strengthening our diversity and inclusion acumen, deepening 
leader and manager understanding of the diversity strategy and its value 
proposition, and increasing senior leader accountability for their diversity plans. 
We know that Microsoft, like the rest of the tech 
industry, must do more to fully reflect the diversity 
of the global population. As a result, this past fiscal 
year, we’ve put renewed focus and thought into 
advancing the diversity and inclusion agenda 
within the company. We developed and rolled out 
key priorities, resulting in our FY16 Global Diversity 
and Inclusion Strategy, which was reviewed and 
approved by our Board of Directors. This new 
strategy has four specific areas of focus: trans-
forming the culture, empowering our people, 
expanding our talent pipeline, and delighting  
our customers.
Building an Inclusive and 
Engaging Culture
Maximizing the contribution of every individual 
allows us to infuse diverse thought as a natural 
part of the way we innovate. With that in mind,  
we value accountability and learning as key 
ingredients to nurturing an inclusive culture.  
Our clearest sign of investment and commitment 
towards creating a more inclusive culture is the 
recent launch of a new mandatory company-wide 
online Unconscious Bias training. From our experi-
ence and the advice of industry experts, we 
identified the importance of recognizing and 
changing unconscious biases in the workplace as 
one of the key actions that will help us to modify 
mindset and behavior. Demonstrating leadership 
support for this training, our CEO Satya Nadella 
and his senior leadership team, along with their 
direct reports, participated in dedicated learning 
sessions and also conducted strategic planning  
on the business benefits of diversity. 
To ensure that completing this training is not a 
“check the box” exercise, we have created inclusive 
leader, manager, and employee learning paths to 
build on the training and other new programs that 
will advance our collective diversity and inclusion 
acumen. These interactive programs include the 
extension of the Unconscious Bias training using a 
live case study format that focuses on real-life, 
role-play opportunities to examine and understand 
unconscious biases that may shape communication 
style, decision making, and behaviors. 
More broadly, we are committed to integrating 
diversity and inclusion principles into meaningful 
aspects of all that we do: from our hiring processes 
to our pursuit of innovation in how we build 
products and technology—to the way we  
communicate with and reward our people.  
We’ve already started this integration with  
company-wide employee events such as our 
annual Hackathon, customer feedback loops,  
our focus on usage in the engineering teams,  
and in our performance management practices. 
Our Ten Inclusive Behaviors guide, shared upon 
completion of the Unconscious Bias Course, 
provides best practices for all employees to 
embrace and model.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
