63Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.3 Our Business Practices
We are mindful that environmental stewardship needs to begin with our own 
operational practices, which includes delivering on our commitment to be 
carbon neutral and to procure 100 percent renewable energy.
 
Carbon Neutrality  
Commitment and Carbon Fee
Since July 1, 2012, Microsoft has achieved carbon 
neutrality across our global operations, spanning 
more than 100 countries, for our datacenters, 
software development labs, offices, business air 
travel, and (as of July 1, 2015) Microsoft-owned 
manufacturing operations. Our carbon neutral 
strategy hinges on company-wide accountability, 
achieved through an internal carbon fee 
cascaded globally to our business groups. 
This chargeback model puts a price on carbon 
and makes the company’s business divisions 
responsible for the cost of reducing and compen-
sating for the carbon emissions associated with 
their electricity use and air travel. The carbon 
fee funds energy efficiency investments, purchas-
ing renewable energy equal to 100 percent of our 
consumption (with the green power purchases 
in the same markets as our operations wherever 
possible) and externally certified carbon 
offset projects. 
In April 2015 Microsoft released a whitepaper 
describing the progress made with our carbon 
fee since its inception, in the hope to inspire other 
organizations to take similar action. Among the 
results it details: since the inception of the carbon 
fee, we have purchased more than 10 million 
megawatt-hours (MWh) of green power, reduced 
our emissions by 7.5 million metric tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (mtCO2e), saved more than 
$10 million a year, and had an impact on more 
than 3.2 million people in emerging nations 
through carbon offset community projects. 
Besides our carbon neutrality commitment, we 
have a 100 percent renewable energy commit-
ment, which we meet through direct purchases of 
renewable energy and the purchase of renewable 
energy credits. We currently use directly purchased 
renewable electricity to power 23 percent of our 
operations, and are exploring opportunities to 
expand our direct purchase of renewable energy 
and support the construction of new renewable 
energy projects. In FY15 we purchased more than 
3.2 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) of renewable 
energy, and in January 2015 the US Environmental 
Protection Agency ranked us as the second-
largest user of green power in the US. The new 
110-megawatt (MW) Keechi Wind project that we 
funded through a 20-year agreement to purchase 
100 percent of its output came online in FY15, and 
we also announced an even larger power pur-
chase agreement for all of the output of the new 
175-MW Pilot Hill Wind Project. We also generate 
a small amount of onsite renewable energy, such 
as from solar panels covering the rooftops on our 
Silicon Valley campus. Finally, access to renewable 
energy is among the criteria that we consider in 
siting datacenters, and a number of our datacen-
ters, like our complex in Quincy, Washington, are 
powered by hydroelectricity.
In order of preference, we seek to use renewable energy by:
1
Connecting facilities directly 
to renewable energy sources 
where feasible.
3
Investing in green power 
(RECs) to match our total 
electricity usage with the 
equivalent number of 
RECs that are credible, are 
verifiable, and add additional 
renewable energy to the grid.
2
Signing long-term renewable 
power purchase agreements 
in regions where we  
have operations and those 
projects are viable.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
