53Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Environmental, Health, and 
Safety Capability Building
Factory worker health and safety is a top priority 
for Microsoft. Over the past four years, we have 
significantly expanded our engagements to help 
suppliers create and maintain safe working envi-
ronments. These programs included the following.
Training Resources
We created a training platform called SEA 
Academy that includes labor, ethics, environ-
mental, health, and safety (EH&S) training course 
modules for suppliers. In FY15, we also conducted 
trainings for 504 trainees from our high-risk sup-
pliers. The courses are also designed as a “train 
the trainer” with project management training to 
complement the expert content and provide tools 
on how to successfully improve their factories. 
Health and Safety Programs
We worked with factory management to emphasize 
the need to use competent and experienced EH&S 
professionals to define and implement the programs 
necessary to build a culture of health and safety. To 
address this, we piloted a number of training modules 
in our Tier 1 and high-risk Tier 2 suppliers, including: 
• Safety Culture
• EH&S Professionals and Senior Management 
Capability Improvement
• EH&S Employee Participation
• Risk Behavior Change
• EH&S Standardization
• Risk Assessment
• Chemical Safety and Management
• Line Manager EH&S Skills Improvement
• Safety Officer Certification for EH&S Staff
• Prevention of Occupational Disease
• Effective Water Management
In FY15, 528 SEA professionals from the Microsoft 
Device Supply Chain attended our SEA in-house 
training, representing factories with more than 
32,000 workers.
Injury Data Tracking
We track key health and safety performance 
indicators for our Tier 1 factories using standard 
OSHA metrics. In FY15, our Tier 1 suppliers aver-
aged a work-related injuries and illness rate of 
0.045 versus an industry benchmark of 1.4, and a 
lost working-hour accident rate of 0.031 versus an 
industry benchmark of 0.7.
Key Tier 2 Supplier Improvement Program
In FY14, to address the growing need for additional 
capacity building among some Tier 2 suppliers, we 
launched a new program to provide targeted 
component suppliers with onsite consulting from 
the SEA program team. We also continued our 
program to target our lowest performing compo-
nent suppliers with special additional inspections 
that include Microsoft executives as well as SEA  
and Sourcing team members. This subset of  
suppliers face an additional compliance scorecard 
and must improve their performance within a 
quarter. Additional time may be given in certain 
occasions that are justified and approved by the 
SEA team. As a result of the close engagement and 
collaboration with suppliers to make improvements 
identified during these audits and assessments, 
factory and worker conditions have advanced at 
many of our suppliers. Suppliers who failed to meet 
the requirements are subject to phase-out and 
termination of business with Microsoft.
 
Sustainable Manufacturing
In addition to meeting legal requirements, we 
apply the same Social and Environmental 
Accountability standards and processes to the 
factories we own and directly operate. Within our 
Microsoft Devices Group (now called the Windows 
and Devices Group), we created a global manufac-
turing Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) team 
of experts in industrial safety, occupational health, 
and environmental sustainability to work across 
these factories to align programs and priorities, 
ensure excellence in EH&S, and drive continuous 
improvement. This new team works closely to align 
approaches with our existing Supplier Social and 
Environmental Accountability team that addresses 
labor rights, employee health and safety, and 
environmental standards in our hardware and 
packaging suppliers and with our corporate-wide 
Occupational Health & Safety & Well Being team 
in Human Resources. 
6.2 Social and Environmental Accountability
in Our Device and Supply Chain Group
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
