21Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.1 Our Approach
Perhaps the most important driver of our success is culture. We fundamentally  
believe that we need a culture founded in a growth mindset. It starts with a belief 
that everyone can grow and develop; that potential is nurtured, not predetermined; 
and that anyone can change their mindset. Our leadership is focused on bringing 
out the best in people, so that everyone is bringing their “A game” and finding  
deep meaning in their work.
We strive to exercise our growth mindset every 
day in three distinct areas:
1. Customer-obsessed. We learn about our 
customers and their businesses with a 
beginner’s mind and then bring solutions 
that meet their needs. We look to learn from 
the outside and bring that knowledge into 
Microsoft, while still innovating to surprise and 
delight our users.
2. Diverse and inclusive. The world is diverse. We 
serve everyone on the planet by representing 
everyone on the planet. We seek to be open 
to learning our own biases and changing our 
behaviors so we can tap into the collective 
power of everyone at Microsoft. We don’t just 
value differences, we seek them out and invite 
them in. And as a result, our ideas are better, 
our products are better, and our customers are 
better served.
3. One Microsoft. We are a family of individuals 
united by a single, shared mission. We build 
on the ideas of others and collaborate across 
boundaries to bring the best of Microsoft to  
our customers as one. 
Through Microsoft’s Global Human Rights 
Statement and as a signatory to the UN Global 
Compact, we’re committed to respecting all of 
the human rights described in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and 
Cultural Rights; and the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work. 2
In addition, our commitments to communicate 
respectfully with each other, to provide for 
diversity and equal employment opportunity 
at all levels of our organization, and to protect 
the safety and health of our employees are 
incorporated into the Microsoft Standards of 
Business Conduct described in the Ethical 
Business Conduct and Governance chapter. 
2 Those ILO principles are freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining; elimination of all 
forms of forced or compulsory labor; effective abolition of child 
labor; and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 
and occupation.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
