59Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.1 Our Approach
Microsoft believes that information technology has tremendous potential to help 
solve pressing environmental and energy challenges. We understand and embrace 
the opportunity to help people and organizations around the world improve the 
environment. We seek to advance sustainability through the products and cloud 
capabilities we offer to our customers and partners, and the use of big data to 
discover the next generation of innovations and insights.
At the same time, we recognize the need to 
address our own environmental footprint as  
both our datacenter operations and hardware 
offerings grow. Microsoft is pioneering new  
ways technology can make our own operations 
more sustainable. Since 2013, we’ve achieved 100 
percent carbon neutrality for our global operations, 
which includes our datacenters, labs, offices,  
manufacturing facilities, and business air travel. 
This commitment was achieved by boosting 
efficiency, purchasing renewable energy in the 
markets of our operations equal to 100 percent  
of our energy consumption where available, and 
conducting a voluntary carbon offset program.  
We also work hard to ensure sustainability is 
considered at each state of the lifecycle of our 
devices, from their design through end of life.
 
Environmental Principles, 
Policies, and Management
Our commitment to environmental sustainability 
spans our company. We seek to advance 
sustainability through the products and platform 
capabilities we offer our customers and partners, 
our own business practices, and our global 
partnerships with governments, academics, 
nonprofits, and others. 
Microsoft’s commitments to environmental sus-
tainability are articulated in our Environmental 
Principles and Climate Change Policy Statement 
and embedded in other corporate policies for how 
we run our business, such as our Environmental 
Compliance Specifications for hardware and our 
policy on Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials.
Microsoft has a global corporate environmen-
tal strategy team and environmental experts 
embedded within engineering, supply chain, 
procurement, research, real estate and facilities, 
datacenters, and legal and corporate affairs. Their 
work is governed through executive oversight and 
is reviewed semi-annually by the Regulatory and 
Public Policy Committee of our Board of Directors.
Our environmental strategy includes a corporate 
carbon neutrality goal as well as goals for specific 
areas of our business, ranging from datacenter 
efficiency to energy and waste reduction at  
Microsoft campuses to the use of recycled content 
in packaging. Microsoft employees receive the 
appropriate role-based environmental training 
and certifications as needed for their jobs, such as 
training in chemical management for hardware lab 
employees and design for environment training 
for packaging engineers. We also promote broad 
environmental awareness by emailing an annual 
update on our environmental goals and progress 
to all Microsoft employees globally. 
Core parts of Microsoft’s operations are  
certified to the International Organization  
for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental  
Management System. This includes our European 
Operations Center, all Microsoft-owned manufac-
turing sites and all the contract manufacturing 
facilities of our Tier 1 hardware suppliers. Microsoft 
also earned a cross-company, corporate-level  
ISO 14001 certification for Microsoft’s hardware 
and packaging manufacturing supply chain 
management and operations.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
