56Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Responsible Sourcing with Indirect Suppliers6.4
Supplier Capacity Building and 
Partnerships
Beyond risk mitigation, we also work to  
advance citizenship projects with our suppliers 
that create shared value. We encourage and 
recognize suppliers who made exceptional  
impact in social and environmental areas through 
our supplier awards program, which highlights 
those awarded as examples to attendees of our 
annual supplier summit. In 2015 these awards 
included a Supplier Diversity Award, Bring the 
Opportunity Divide Leadership Award, Impact 
Sourcing Leadership Award, and Climate Perfor-
mance Leadership Award. 
We provide supplier development and training 
resources, including our Supplier Code of Conduct 
Training Program. This online training is manda-
tory for a segment of our suppliers based on risk 
to ensure they understand and follow ethical 
business practices in accordance with our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. In FY15, 55,063 employees at 
6,413 suppliers completed this training. Beyond 
this mandatory training, we invite key suppliers  
to participate in webinars and workshops on 
topics ranging from Microsoft’s carbon neutrality 
program to the latest Global Reporting Initiatives 
guidelines. We participate in the CDP Supply Chain 
Program to provide our suppliers a standardized 
platform to understand the risks and opportunities 
that climate change presents to them.
Through the Microsoft YouthSpark Supplier 
Community Technology Center (CTC) program,  
we collaborate with suppliers to further extend  
the reach of Microsoft’s YouthSpark initiative.  
We provide curriculum and support to help our 
suppliers use their facilities to host technology 
skills trainings for their employees and local 
community members. These trainings provide 
participants with an opportunity to receive a 
no-cost Microsoft Digital Literacy certificate, a key 
qualification for many technology jobs. To date,  
16 suppliers have launched centers at 26 locations 
in 13 countries and 45,000 participants have 
achieved a Microsoft Digital Literacy Certificate.  
In a separate initiative, in FY15 we continued our 
collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation to 
research and promote best practices in “Impact 
Sourcing” with suppliers that proactively seek to 
provide work and training opportunities to high 
potential but disadvantaged individuals. Several  
of our suppliers have embraced this concept and 
partnered with us in a multi-stakeholder group  
to develop Impact Sourcing success metrics, and  
also helped developed business cases on Impact 
Sourcing. In addition, our suppliers have commit-
ted to create over 5,000 Impact Employment jobs. 
In FY15, Microsoft supported Impact Sourcing 
projects in the United States, Kenya, Uganda, and 
India for services such as facilities management, 
and we are working to extend this approach with 
more suppliers.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
