Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report 13
2.1 2.2Our Approach Commitment to Ethics and  
Standards of Business Conduct 
Building a fabric of trust is paramount to realizing our mission to empower every 
person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. This means winning 
and preserving the trust of our customers, partners, and governments around the 
globe. We work to build and maintain trust through a shared commitment to ethical 
behavior and by acting with integrity in everything we do.
Establishing trust in our complex and dynamic 
world starts with our culture—how we work, what 
we value, how we interact with others. The foun-
dation of our ethical culture is our commitment to 
integrity, honesty, and principled behavior in every 
situation and challenge we face.
Our commitments to ethical business practices 
and strong corporate governance policies are 
designed to promote the long-term interests of 
our shareholders, maintain internal checks and 
balances, promote accountability at all levels of 
our organization, and foster responsible  
decision making. We are proud that because  
of our commitments and actions, we’ve been  
on the Ethisphere Institute’s list of the World’s 
Most Ethical Companies every year since they 
began issuing the list in 2011.
Microsoft regularly interacts with customers, partners, competitors, shareholders, 
suppliers, representatives, regulatory agencies, and government officials. We are 
committed to engaging all of these groups in a respectful, ethical manner and in 
compliance with all legal requirements.
Microsoft’s Standards of Business Conduct are 
the foundation of our commitment to ethical 
business practices and legal compliance. These 
standards are endorsed by the Microsoft Board 
of Directors and apply to all employees, directors, 
and executive officers of Microsoft and its subsid-
iaries and controlled affiliates (where Microsoft 
directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent 
of the voting control).
All Microsoft employees must complete annual 
training on our Standards of Business Conduct. 
The training course is available in 19 languages. 
In FY15, as in previous years, we achieved a  
completion rate for the course of greater than  
99 percent. In addition, a variety of mandatory 
role-specific trainings address the compliance risks 
of particular business functions, and Microsoft 
provides employees with a wide range of addi-
tional optional training and guidance to ensure 
awareness of our policies and expectations for 
ethical behavior. The following graphic from the 
Microsoft Standards of Business Conduct reflects 
our straightforward approach and encourages 
employees to consult with internal resources  
when necessary.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
