9Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Stakeholder Engagement1.3
Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results
Industry coalitions 
and public-private 
partnerships
Microsoft actively participates in industry coalitions to 
address important citizenship issues and in many cases 
is among the leaders bringing companies together to 
work collaboratively to solve challenges.
Microsoft has helped establish  
groups that help set the standard  
for responsible business practices in 
the ICT industry, ranging from the 
Electronics Industry Citizenship 
Coalition and Global Network Initiative 
to the International Association of 
Accessibility Professionals.
Civil society / 
nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs)
Across the breadth of our business, we engage 
with thousands of NGOs working on issues ranging 
from environmental sustainability to employee 
diversity to child safety.
Virtually all of the initiatives described 
throughout this Citizenship Report 
have benefitted from insights provided 
by NGOs and in many cases involve 
active ongoing partnerships with them.
Policymakers Microsoft engages actively in policy issues relevant 
to our business, both directly and through industry 
associations. We seek to ensure that our participation 
in the political process takes place in the light of day 
and for reasons that are clear and justifiable to our 
shareholders and the public.
Microsoft is recognized as a leader 
for policies that help to ensure the 
accountability and transparency 
of our engagement in the public 
policy process.
Stakeholder Engagement Overview
Stakeholder Groups Examples of Engagement Selected Results
Employees We ask for—and act on—employee feedback in 
multiple ways, including conducting an annual online 
anonymous poll of all our employees around the 
world. The poll, with a nearly 85 percent response rate, 
asks employees to share feedback about the Microsoft 
work experience, including how they feel about their 
workgroups, organization, and company as a whole. 
Microsoft offers employees, customers, suppliers,  
and other external parties multiple ways to report 
compliance concerns as described in our Ethical  
Business Conduct and Governance chapter. 
Microsoft’s Senior Leadership Team 
and individual managers use the poll 
results to further improve on areas of 
strength and address opportunities 
for improvement.
Suppliers We engage with suppliers through capacity-building 
workshops and trainings, supplier advisory boards, 
hosting an annual supplier summit, and participation 
in industry coalitions, such as the Electronics Industry 
Citizenship Coalition. We also conduct anonymous 
Voice of the Supplier Surveys, which include questions 
on citizenship issues.
Our work to address environmental 
and social issues in collaboration 
with our suppliers is detailed in the 
Responsible Sourcing chapter.
Communities Microsoft’s local citizenship teams work directly with 
community groups and in partnerships with local non-
profits. They share views and insights from local com-
munities with Microsoft’s global Citizenship and Public 
Affairs team in direct communications, through regular 
conference calls, and at an annual global summit.
Microsoft’s YouthSpark Initiative and 
Office 365 for Nonprofits program 
were both strongly shaped by input 
from local communities about the 
best way to serve economic and social 
needs in their area.
Stakeholder Engagement Overview
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
