54Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
6.3 Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials 
Microsoft’s commitment to the responsible production of our hardware and 
packaging extends to the raw materials that go into them. In 2014, we formalized 
our values and approach around upstream responsible sourcing through our 
Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials policy, which goes beyond conflict minerals 
to apply to all materials sourced around the world. This policy extends our Supplier 
Code of Conduct expectations in support of human rights, labor, health and safety, 
environmental protection, and business ethics to all harvested and extracted 
materials incorporated into our products. 
We exercise due diligence across our supply chain 
through a material tracing process that allows us 
to immediately identify the constituent substances 
used in our products and trace them back to their 
associated suppliers. Beyond our own supply  
chain due diligence, we have now moved our 
collaborative efforts to the upstream mining 
industry, through direct participation in and 
support of the Initiative for Responsible Mining 
Assurance, Pact, and the Alliance for Responsible 
Mining, to holistically cover end-to-end mining 
sustainability, from artisanal to larger mining 
enterprises. It is our intention that these initiatives 
eventually will enable our suppliers to purchase 
responsibly sourced materials for use in our 
products and address important challenges for  
the supply chains dependent upon the use of 
metals, ranging from underage labor to environ-
mental degradation. On the specific issue of tin 
originating from Indonesia, Microsoft is also a 
member of the IDH Tin Working Group, which 
brings together a range of stakeholders seeking  
to address the social and environmental issues 
related to tin mining.
In another example, we have collaborated with  
our suppliers and other hardware companies since 
2007 to address conflict minerals from the eastern 
DRC. Our suppliers must not knowingly use 
minerals that are not DRC conflict-free and we 
expect our suppliers to engage in similarly robust 
due diligence activities. We provide a detailed 
discussion of our conflict minerals due diligence 
process and findings in our June 2015 Conflict 
Minerals Report filed with the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission under requirements of  
the Dodd-Frank Act. Microsoft’s report has been 
cited for its leadership in transparency with the 
disclosure of as much smelter-level and country-
of-origin data as we have available. As with our 
broader efforts on mining sustainability, we 
believe that collaborative partnerships are most 
effective in addressing conflict minerals. 
Meaningful progress related to conflict minerals is 
reflected in our Conflict Minerals Report filed with 
the US Securities and Exchange Commission in 
June 2015. The number of conflict-free smelters in 
our supply chain increased from 80 to 148, due to 
the integration of Nokia’s Devices and Services 
Group, supplier outreach, and the maturation of 
the Conflict Free Smelter Program (CFSP), of which 
we were an original participant and remain a 
strong supporter. In addition, in spring 2015 we 
passed a significant milestone with all tantalum 
smelters identified in the Microsoft supply chain 
validated as conflict-free. We strengthened our 
supplier audit process to improve due diligence, 
developed new controls to standardize supplier 
reports, and initiated third-party assistance to help 
smelters prepare for CFSP validation. 
More detailed results of our conflict minerals due 
diligence process and findings are available in our 
latest Conflict Minerals Report, available on our 
Responsible Sourcing webpage for download. 
We also have supported the Conflict Free Smelter 
Initiative (CFSI) since its inception in 2010 and 
donated to the initial audit fund to make it easier 
for smelters to become certified through CFSI’s 
Conflict Free Smelter Program.
We support several other organizations  
promoting responsible mining and an end  
to conflict in and around the DRC, including the 
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals 
Trade and the Responsible Sourcing Network’s 
Multi-Stakeholder Group. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
