25Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.3 Global Diversity and Inclusion
We’ve also embraced opportunities to advocate 
for public policies that foster diversity and inclu-
sion. In 1993, Microsoft became the first Fortune 
500 Company to provide same-sex domestic 
partnership benefits for Microsoft lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees.  
We also found that with regards to our LGBT 
employees and their families, there can be  
significant challenges in states or countries that 
don’t provide equal recognition for their marriage 
or committed relationships. For that reason, in 
January 2012 Microsoft joined other leading 
companies to support legislation in our home 
state of Washington that recognized marriage 
equality for same-sex couples. Since then, we’ve 
advocated for marriage equality in places where 
we have facilities and employees and will continue 
to support marriage equality when this issue arises 
in communities around the world.
Empowering Our People
Recognizing that “top talent” and “diverse talent” 
are not mutually exclusive populations, we will 
continue to make Microsoft the employer of 
choice for all great talent. And with that, we are 
more focused than ever on empowering our 
people through recruitment, retention, and career 
development. We have clear goals company-wide 
to increase global representation of women and 
ethnic minorities in the United States, particularly 
at more senior levels of the organization. Within 
our talent and recruiting organizations, we are 
sharpening our focus on diverse candidate 
pools—and in fact one of the metrics our recruit-
ing organization is measured against is how 
effectively it recruits from these pools. 
Each member of our senior leadership team is 
accountable for driving diversity and inclusion prog-
ress relative to how we attract, retain, and advance 
women and other diverse employees within the 
company. We’ve introduced and revised a number 
of rich developmental and on-boarding programs 
to support this effort. We continue to evolve our 
talent management practices by diversifying our 
candidate slates and implementing inclusive succes-
sion planning for senior diverse talent.
Expanding Our Pipeline of 
Talent and Leaders
In addition to our employee retention and career 
development strategies, expanding the pipeline 
of diverse talent for the tech industry as a whole, 
as well as for our company, is very important to 
us. We have developed specific programs around 
the cultivation of diverse talent which start with 
our high school internship programs and continue 
with our executive recruiting efforts. The follow-
ing are examples of some of our programs that 
directly address the shortage of diverse students 
graduating with science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics (STEM) degrees: 
• For more than a decade we have championed 
DigiGirlz, now part of the Microsoft YouthSpark 
initiative, which gives girls aged 14 to 18 
the opportunity to learn about careers in 
technology, connect with Microsoft employees, 
and participate in hands-on computer and 
technology workshops. DigiGirlz programs now 
span 16 countries and have reached 26,000 
participants. A key sign that this program is 
having a positive impact is that some of the 
early participants have now graduated from 
college and joined Microsoft as employees. 
• Blacks at Microsoft, an Employee Resource 
Group, hosts an annual Minority Student Day 
that provides local area high school students 
from underrepresented ethnic backgrounds 
with information about the tools, resources, 
and career opportunities that are available 
to them in information technology. It also 
awards scholarships to high school seniors and 
connects recipients with mentors throughout 
their college careers. The program has 
been successful in helping graduates find 
employment at Microsoft.
• We’ve recently expanded our Explore Microsoft 
12-week summer internship program that 
strives to attract women and minorities into 
technical fields and to Microsoft. It is specifically 
designed to expose first- and second-year 
college students to software development and 
encourage students to pursue degrees in this 
and other related fields of study.
• Our involvement with Code.org has enabled 
us to reach 52 million youth in the US in just 
the past 18 months, and through our TEALS 
program we reached 6,000 students in 131 high 
schools during the 2014–2015 school year.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
