26Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
In addition to these investments, we are also 
broadening the spectrum of diverse talent sources, 
including deepening our commitment and invest-
ment in hiring people with disabilities. We recently 
invested in a new pilot program focused on hiring 
people with autism for full-time, Redmond-based 
Microsoft positions. We developed this pilot in 
partnership with Specialisterne, a social enterprise 
run by the Specialist People Foundation, which 
works to enable one million jobs for people with 
autism and similar challenges through social  
entrepreneurship, corporate sector engagement, 
and a global change in mind-set. 
Microsoft is also working to help diversify non-
STEM fields as well, such as the legal profession. 
In 2015 Microsoft partnered with other compa-
nies and law firms to launch the Gregoire Fellows 
Program in partnership with the University of 
Washington School of Law, to bring greater  
diversity to the school and improve the pipeline  
of diverse students to Washington state.  
The Fellows will receive summer internships,  
mentoring throughout their time in law school, 
and a scholarship to study for the bar.
Delighting Our Customers
When it is all said and done, having a diverse  
workforce—one that is a reflection of the richness 
of the customers around the world who buy our 
products, services, and technologies—is critical to 
our long-term business success. Our goal is to use 
diversity and inclusion to build products that  
customers need, choose, and love.
Our product development processes are evolving 
to become more inclusive and accessible than  
ever before. We have programs such as our annual 
Ability Summit and new Inclusive Design initiative 
that serve to enable more innovative and accessi-
ble products. Through these efforts, accessibility  
features and settings are built into Microsoft  
software programs. We have made significant  
R&D investments in accessible technology,  
including speech processing (for hard of hearing),  
speech synthesis (for speech impairment),  
eye-operated assistive technology and advanced 
wheelchairs (for ALS), and directional audio (for 
guide dogs).
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG) repre-
sent many different segments of our population 
and serve as outreach mechanisms between 
diverse communities and Microsoft as a whole. 
These groups help support important business 
initiatives—from recruiting and retention to the 
marketing of Microsoft products and services.  
We work closely with our ERGs and Employee  
Networks to help make sure that the products  
that we’re creating actually work for the  
populations they represent.
Workforce Diversity Data
Our emphasis on diversity is not purely a conver-
sation about the numbers—it is as much a focus 
on our attitudes and behaviors as leaders that 
drive the numbers. That being said, it is important 
that we track and report on our diversity data—
which we do quarterly. While we have publicly 
shared our workforce data since 2006, in the fall 
of 2014 we began sharing even more specific 
data relative to our demographics via our Global 
Diversity & Inclusion website, including publish-
ing the EEO-1 data we report each year to the US 
government. The data confirmed that Microsoft, 
like the rest of the tech industry, must do more to 
fully reflect the diversity of the global population, 
and underlies the new approaches and commit-
ments we are making to make progress.
3.3 Global Diversity and Inclusion
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
