28Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
3.4 Training and Development
We believe that everyone can grow and develop; that potential is nurtured, not 
pre-determined; and that anyone can change their mindset. To support our 
growth mindset culture, we offer a diverse range of learning and development 
opportunities, including trainings available in the classroom, online, and through 
videos, mobile apps, podcasts, and other formats in multiple languages, to meet 
the learning needs of our employees around the world. We believe training is not 
limited to formal instruction and our training philosophy focuses on providing the 
right learning, at the right time, in the right way.
With training opportunities ranging from class-
room modules to peer-to-peer mentoring, no one 
metric captures the breadth of learning available 
to Microsoft employees, but globally we have 
found that in FY15:
• 91 percent of all employees were satisfied with 
the knowledge they gained and could apply to 
their job immediately with our formal training.
• Our employees spent an average of 26 hours in 
formal training. 
We invest significantly in our employees’  
career development, provide on-the-job 
“stretch” opportunities for advancement, and 
offer frequent promotion opportunities, all of 
which are foundational to our culture. 
Throughout the year, employees get coaching  
on career development through meetings with 
their manager. Managers receive training to 
enhance their skills in coaching and mentoring 
employees on how to achieve the greatest impact, 
as well as how to drive their own career develop-
ment, providing tools and resources to support 
focused and actionable conversations. We also 
offer all new employees a robust new employee 
orientation that covers a broad range of topics  
to help set employees up for success from their 
first day at Microsoft. Orientation topics range 
from an overview of benefits, online resources, 
opportunities to engage in communities, to 
exploration of our company values, culture,  
and Standards of Business Conduct.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
