57Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
6.5 FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals
Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Strategic Goals
Goal: Evaluating and aligning our principles, policies, and 
activities across the Microsoft Devices Group to include the 
factories and suppliers related to the Nokia Devices and 
Services business we acquired near the end of FY14.
As reported in this chapter, we are applying the same SEA 
requirements that we apply to our suppliers’ factories to the 
factories we own. In FY15, we worked to align factory policies 
and practices with our labor, health and safety, environment, 
and ethics systems that we apply to our contracted suppliers 
and to our existing factory in Wilsonville, Oregon.
Goal: Continuing to scale our SEA supply chain programs 
such as the Model Factory Program, Worker Grievance 
reporting, and EH&S capability building to continue to 
enhance worker living and working conditions.
As detailed in this chapter, we continued or expanded all 
of these efforts and continue to see significant progress by 
participating suppliers.
Goal: Continuing to invest in improving the management 
system capabilities of low-performing, high-risk Tier 2 fac-
tories by providing targeted SEA consulting and training.
As detailed in this chapter, we continued these efforts 
and continue to see significant progress by participating 
suppliers.
Goal: Working collaboratively with NGOs and others in our 
industry to advance the goals of the Microsoft Policy on 
Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials, including further 
progress addressing conflict minerals.
As reported in this chapter and our Conflict Minerals Report, 
we expanded our NGO partnerships and made significant 
progress tracking minerals in our supply chain and expand-
ing coverage of certified conflict-free smelters.
• Broadening the scale of our SEA supply chain programs, 
such as the SEA Academy, Model Factory Program, 
Worker Grievance reporting, Labor and EH&S capability 
building, to continue to enhance worker living and 
working conditions. 
• Increasing our ongoing investment in improving the 
management system capabilities of low-performing, 
high-risk Tier 2 factories by providing targeted SEA 
consulting and training.
• Continuing to strengthen engagements and work 
collaboratively with NGOs and the electronics and other 
industry sectors to advance the goals of the Microsoft 
Policy on Responsible Sourcing of Raw Materials, 
including further progress addressing conflict minerals.
• Expanding consideration of the sustainability 
performance of our indirect suppliers in our procurement 
decisions and supplier awards.
Goal: Enhancing the screening of our non-hardware supply 
chain annually for ethical, social, and environmental risks 
and deepening assurance requirements for suppliers found 
to pose the highest risks. These will include EICC-based 
supplier self-assessment questionnaires, contractually 
binding Responsible Sourcing Requirements, quarterly 
scorecards, onsite assessments, and third-party audits.
In FY15 we continued to refine and enhance our approaches 
to screening our indirect suppliers and applying a range of 
assurance mechanisms, including onsite assessments based 
on suppliers’ risks. As described in this chapter, Microsoft 
screens our non-hardware suppliers on an ongoing basis 
against 23 different ethical, social, and environmental risks 
by country and by commodity.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
