61Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
CityNext
For cities, Microsoft CityNext partners provide 
solutions spanning energy, water, buildings, 
infrastructure, and transportation to help modern-
ize cities in sustainable ways that will minimize 
their resource use and environmental impact. Our 
broad portfolio of familiar consumer and business 
platforms and partner solutions—which many 
cities already use—are meeting customers wher-
ever they are on the technology innovation curve 
and helping them to build a bridge to the future. 
Within our Sustainable Cities focus, we deliver 
solutions for:
• Buildings, infrastructure, and planning. 
Microsoft partners are using both design and 
embedded technology to lower the energy 
consumption and improve the performance of 
buildings. By combining existing systems with 
cloud-based analytics and business intelligence 
capabilities, buildings can be smarter and more 
efficient, and save about 10 percent of energy 
costs per year.
• Energy and water. By using digital technology 
to integrate and manage distributed energy 
supply and demand data, Microsoft partners 
are working to improve the reliability, security, 
and efficiency of the electric system, as well as 
using technology to measure, manage, and 
report on carbon and other environmental 
impacts.
• Transportation. Through software, Microsoft 
partners are helping to improve the design and 
operation of transport networks and run real-
time data systems that can facilitate cleaner and 
more efficient transport choices.
To date, we have recruited more than 1,000 part-
ners that are delivering more than 870 solutions 
in countries all around the world from Ankara, 
Turkey, to Auckland, New Zealand.
7.2 Products
Productivity
With the increasing number of interconnected 
devices—from thermostats, appliances, and 
fixtures, to equipment, vehicles, and charging sta-
tions—all generating massive sets of data, big data 
is changing what is possible with sustainability. 
Microsoft is investing to help customers manage 
smart resources using big data through tools for 
Windows Server and Windows Azure.
Through data and analytics, customers are gaining 
vital insights from millions of devices, social 
media channels, and business systems. This data 
represents a significant opportunity to make more 
accurate decisions, achieve greater efficiencies, 
and become more sustainable in areas like energy, 
water, buildings, transportation, and countless 
other scenarios. For example, to increase the use 
of renewable energy, big data can be used to 
more effectively understand and anticipate energy 
demand and consumption in near real time, which 
can enable more responsive generation. Distribu-
tion needs to become more flexible to manage 
renewable sources, and end use is critical to the 
equation in taking advantage of technology, 
eliminating waste, and optimizing consumption. 
Microsoft Office 365 solutions support the new 
world of work by streamlining communications 
and collaboration and thereby reducing the 
need for business travel and commuting—while 
delivering all the environmental benefits of cloud 
computing. Skype adds to these enterprise-grade 
collaboration, online conferencing, and desktop-
sharing capabilities with its global customer base, 
making it even easier for businesses to use online 
meetings in place of travel to connect with trading 
partners and customers.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
