46Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
• Continuing ongoing review of our policies and practices 
to ensure we are meeting our commitments to human 
rights and to perform ongoing assessments of the human 
rights impacts of our operations.  
• Reviewing current approaches for using the power of 
technology to combat human trafficking and identifying 
new opportunities for action. 
• Further strengthening our commitment to addressing 
the needs of people with disabilities, including reading 
and writing literacy tools and deeper exploration of how 
innovations such as gesture control, speech recognition, 
and touch can foster accessibility.
Goal: Continuing to review our policies and practices to 
ensure we are meeting our commitments to human rights 
and to perform ongoing assessments of the human rights 
impacts of our operations.
We continued our work engaging with a wide range of 
human rights experts to evaluate our existing human rights 
commitments and consider the human rights impacts of 
key business decisions and perform human rights impact 
assessments of focused areas of our business. 
Goal: Continuing to advance human rights trainings 
to targeted internal groups within Microsoft.  
We promoted awareness of our human rights 
commitments to employees broadly across Microsoft 
and with targeted required trainings for our sales 
field and key sourcing professionals.
Goal: Finalizing a Memorandum of Understanding with 
the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human 
Rights to enhance its use of technology. 
We finalized this memorandum of understanding and are 
moving forward with implementation to help the Office of 
the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to enhance 
its use of technology.
Goal: Advancing awareness of Microsoft’s accessible 
products and services to meet the needs of K-12 students 
with disabilities.
Microsoft supports inclusive education policies that ensure 
accessible and assistive technologies are made available 
to students with disabilities throughout their education 
system and teachers are trained and supported 
in their implementation.
Goal: Supporting and advancing the implementation 
of the UN Convention for the Rights of People 
with Disabilities. 
Microsoft collaborates with governments, consumers, and 
organizations to support and advance the implementation 
of the UN Convention for the Rights of People with Disabili-
ties and promote digital inclusion of persons with disabilities 
in all aspects of development. We regularly partner with 
organizations such as the Global Initiative for Inclusive Infor-
mation and Communication Technologies (G3ict), the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
(UNESCO) and the Organization of American States (OAS) 
to raise awareness of the accessible ICT in countries such as 
Mexico, India, and South Africa. 
FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals5.6
Progress Against FY15 Goals FY16 Goals
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
