64Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
7.3 Our Business Practices
Driving Energy Efficiency 
Across Our Operations
Building Efficiency Investments
Our last round of carbon-fee funded efficiency 
projects and other energy-efficiency investments 
by our Real Estate and Facilities group totaled  
over $3.1 million in investments that reduced our 
associated carbon emissions by 18,179 metric tons 
and also paid for themselves in less than a year 
with $3.6 million in energy savings. Beyond cost 
savings, we’ve also found opportunities to create 
new areas of revenue. Microsoft created an  
analytical software solution that joined together 
38,000 assets of disparate, sensor-enabled  
equipment across the 125 buildings in our Puget 
Sound headquarters. The system processes 500 
million data transactions every day to prioritize 
maintenance and repairs with the greatest  
energy and cost saving potential. The solution is 
generating energy savings of 10–11 percent and an 
implementation payback of less than 24 months. 
We are now expanding the solution to our other 
campuses with equally good results: the software 
identified $240,000 of energy savings at our 
Mountain View, CA campus within the first 30 days 
of deployment. We are sharing our results with 
government and industry leaders from around  
the globe and making similar solutions available 
through partners to our customers (such as 
through Microsoft CityNext offerings). With 
inefficient commercial buildings responsible f 
or upwards of 40 percent of the world’s energy 
consumption, we see the huge potential environ-
mental and business impacts from this approach.
Datacenters 
We’re designing energy-saving approaches into 
our new datacenters, such as using outside air 
cooling and airside economizers that dramatically 
cut the energy and water used for cooling. This 
approach to cooling reduces energy consumption 
by 15-20 percent and water consumption by 90 
percent. Overall, our datacenters average 1.4 PUE 
(Power Usage Effectiveness, one measure of data 
center efficiency), more efficient than the industry 
average of 1.7 PUE.
We are concerned about not just efficiency inside 
the datacenter, but also how to create dramatically 
more efficient systems, from the power plant to 
the chip. Examples of this approach include the 
pilot project datacenter in Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
which ran completely independently of the grid 
from 2014 to 2015 by using energy generated from 
biogas, a byproduct of a nearby water treatment 
plant. We’ve also pioneered a new concept to 
integrate fuel cells directly into server racks, which 
we expect to effectively cut datacenter energy 
intensity in half by eliminating transmission losses 
and other inefficiencies. We are working with 
industry partners and the DOE to pilot and com-
mercialize new energy technologies that will be 
foundational to the next generation of efficient 
datacenter designs. In another step forward in this 
approach, in FY15 we established a partnership 
with the University of Texas at San Antonio and the 
school’s Texas Sustainable Energy Research Insti-
tute to identify economically viable technologies 
that further reduce the environmental footprint of 
datacenters. Beyond the datacenters themselves, 
we’re building energy-saving features into our 
cloud services, such as the ability for developers to 
automatically scale their resource use to demand. 
Carbon Footprint  
and Energy Use
We have a longstanding commitment to  
transparently disclosing our carbon footprint  
and have voluntarily reported our carbon footprint 
through CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure 
Project) since 2004. Data on our carbon emissions 
are available on the CDP website. We also have 
pilot projects to encourage portions of our supply 
base to report their emissions to CDP. In recogni-
tion of our climate efforts, CDP included Microsoft 
on its Global 500 Climate Performance Leadership 
Index in the past two years. In September 2014, 
we earned the top grade “A” in CDP’s assessment 
of our performance to promote climate change 
mitigation, adaptation, and transparency, and CDP 
rated our disclosure and transparency on climate 
issues at 99 out of 100. 
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
