33Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
4.2 Microsoft YouthSpark
Microsoft YouthSpark is a global company-wide initiative to use the power of 
technology to connect youth around the world with education, employment, 
and entrepreneurship opportunities. We launched YouthSpark in 2012 with the 
specific goal of creating opportunities for 300 million youth by 2015. In FY15 we 
created opportunities for over 80 million youth and met our three-year goal, 
creating opportunities for more than 307 million youth in total. Going forward, 
we will continue our YouthSpark initiative with a sharpened focus on increasing 
access for all youth to computer science education on a global scale. The 
following are just a few of the programs that comprise YouthSpark.
Nonprofit Partners
To help close the opportunity gap for millions of 
youth around the world, Microsoft YouthSpark 
provides philanthropic contributions to more than 
400 youth-serving nonprofit organizations in more 
than 100 countries spanning the globe, including: 
• The Anupdip Foundation for Social Welfare’s 
DREAM for Women program, which establishes 
women-run co-operatives in rural India and 
provides them technology and business  
skills training.
• The Center for Digital Inclusion’s 68 
YouthSpark Centers across Brazil, Colombia, 
and Mexico, which provide technology and 
business skills trainings to help youth increase 
their opportunities for further education, 
employment, and entrepreneurship.
• Silatech’s Youth Works Employment Initiative, 
a three-year program to empower one million 
Arab youth through training, job placement, 
and self-employment resources.
• Junior Achievement’s Youth Enterprise Europe 
program that provides computer science and 
entrepreneurial educational trainings in 17 
European countries.
• Code.org and the Hour of Code, which have 
introduced millions of K–12 students to 
computer science education with a particular 
focus on increasing participation by women 
and underrepresented students of color.
Office 365 for Education
Microsoft Office 365 is free for all students and 
teachers around the world and provides ready 
access to technology tools that power learning 
and collaboration: email, instant messaging,  
group video and voice chat, and online  
document viewing and editing.
Skype in the Classroom
Skype in the Classroom creates a free, global 
community for teachers to connect their students 
with other students and guest speakers from 
around the world.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
