70Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
Goal: Maintaining our commitment to achieving carbon 
neutrality and net-zero emissions for our datacenters, soft-
ware development labs, offices, and employee air travel 
by increasing energy efficiency and investing in renewable 
energy and carbon offset projects.
We met these commitments in FY15 and expanded the 
program to also address Microsoft-owned manufacturing 
facilities in FY16.
Goal: Establishing targets with business groups to improve 
operational energy efficiency.
Our Real Estate & Facilities group set energy efficiency 
targets and water use targets for our large campuses 
that represent approximately 80 percent of our campus 
energy use.
Goal: Building on the model of our 110-MW Keechi Wind 
power purchase agreement with additional large-scale 
commitments to purchase renewable energy.
Beyond our Keechi Wind power purchase agreement, in 
FY15 we signed a 60 percent larger wind power purchase 
agreement to catalyze development of the new Pilot Hill 
Wind Power Project.
Goal: Meeting our 100 percent renewable energy commit-
ment by matching the total amount of kWh consumed 
with the equivalent volume of renewable energy pur-
chased.
We accomplished this, purchasing over 3.2 billion kWh of 
green power and seeking to purchase green power in the 
same markets as our operations wherever available. 
Goal: Expanding our global data collection and reporting 
of waste and water data.
We expanded our global collection and reporting of waste 
data and continue working to enhance our reporting of 
water data.
• Continuing to achieve carbon neutrality and net-zero 
emissions for our datacenters, software development 
labs, offices, manufacturing facilities, and employee air 
travel by increasing energy efficiency and investing in 
renewable energy and carbon offset projects.
• Further increasing our direct purchases of 
 renewable energy.
• Expanding our ecosystem of partners working with 
Microsoft on sustainability solutions for cities through 
Microsoft’s CityNext initiative.
FY15 Progress and FY16 Goals7.6
FY15 Goals FY16 Goals
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
