USA
Austria
Germany
Belgium Czech Republic
Netherlands
United Kingdom
Ireland
China
Hong Kong
Malaysia
Singapore
Philippines
Japan
South KoreaItaly
Brazil
Taiwan
Thailand
Vietnam
India
Finland
Mexico
Malta
Israel
48Microsoft 2015 Citizenship Report
All suppliers doing business with Microsoft must uphold the ethical business, 
employment, environmental, and worker safety practices prescribed in our Supplier 
Code of Conduct—which aligns with, and in certain cases exceeds, the Electronic 
Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC’s) responsible supply chain standards. We are 
also committed to ensuring that suppliers of the raw materials incorporated into 
our products operate sustainably and ethically.
We apply risk-based approaches for the respon-
sible management of all of our suppliers, with 
a particular focus on suppliers of products and 
services that directly touch our customers, such 
as Microsoft-branded hardware devices and 
packaging and outsourced customer service and 
support. We also work collaboratively with our 
suppliers on proactive initiatives that create value 
for their employees, the communities in which 
they operate, and their own businesses.
Within Microsoft, two groups work to ensure 
that our social, ethical, environmental, health, 
and safety requirements for suppliers are met. 
Microsoft’s Device and Supply Chain Group 
(DSC) established its Social and Environmental 
Accountability (SEA) Program in 2005 to ensure 
that our hardware and packaging suppliers 
conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct and 
additional hardware-related requirements for 
living conditions, safe working practices, and 
environmental, health, and safety protection. 
Microsoft’s Global Procurement Group, which 
manages Microsoft’s spending with indirect 
(that is, non-hardware) suppliers, created a new 
management function in 2013 to consolidate and 
enhance responsible sourcing activities based 
on learnings and best practices from the SEA 
Program. Together, these two programs promote 
capacity-building and establish proactive partner-
ships with suppliers, and embed social and 
environmental criteria into Microsoft’s core 
purchasing and sourcing decisions.
6.1 6.2Our Approach Social and Environmental 
Accountability in Our Device 
and Supply Chain Group
Our hardware business has grown since its inception in 1982. Our Device and Supply 
Chain Group manages this supply chain, which spans 25 countries around the 
world. To provide greater transparency on our hardware supply chain, we publish 
an annual list of our top 100 production suppliers for our commercially available 
hardware products. During FY15, our supply chain integrated the Nokia Devices 
and Services business, which expanded our suppliers to include those engaged 
in mobile device production.8
Microsoft Production Supplier Locations
 
8 In July 2015 (after the end of FY15) Microsoft announced a restructuring of our phone business that will occur in FY16. 
Our 2016 Citizenship Report will address that restructuring.
Our Company Our People Human Rights Responsible  
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing
Ethical Business 
Conduct and 
Governance
Environmental 
Sustainability
Empowering 
Communities
Performance 
Highlights
