29Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
We start this process early in the design and manufacturing phases so we 
can take appropriate actions to remove or replace hazardous chemicals. 
In some cases, few replacements are readily available, so we work with 
our suppliers to find substitutions, switch to another supplier that uses 
safer materials, or explore how to eliminate the need for that substance. 
It took us four years to remove polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, from our power 
cords and headphone cables. We tested dozens of formulations until 
we finally found the right blend of durability, safety, and environmental 
performance in the nonchlorinated and nonbrominated thermoplastic 
elastomers that we used as replacements. 
Biocompatibility
To ensure the safety of Apple Watch, 
we make our own sweat.
We carefully test all product materials that come in contact with skin. For 
example, many people are allergic to nickel, which is common in many 
alloys like stainless steel. So we do nickel leach testing on Apple Watch 
and other wearable devices to measure how quickly nickel can transfer 
from metal parts into sweat. We even create artificial sweat to conduct 
such tests. By placing different components in jars of the artificial sweat, 
we can closely monitor samples to ensure that nickel and other allergens 
and irritants stay where they belong. 
And we go far beyond sweat in our testing. We analyze materials that 
someone might put in their mouth—like an Apple Pencil you might chew 
on while considering the next line in your drawing—to make sure they’re 
safe. We also evaluate products after they’ve undergone extensive 
reliability testing to ensure that they remain safe for our customers, even 
after years of use and exposure to different environmental conditions.
In an incubator that simulates the  
temperature of the human body,  
Apple Watch bands are placed in  
jars of artificial sweat to undergo  
analytical testing.
