 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Fiber Footprint Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 
 
2 Reviewed Data and Findings 
As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
 Calculation methodology for the corporate fiber footprint 
 Sales data for FY2016, including accessories 
 Selected product and supplier specific data on packaging design (including CAD 
design drawings), materials (distinction of paper qualities, fiber content, including 
recycled fiber content), weights and production yields (process yields and cut-off 
losses) 
 Aggregated fiber data for all products and the total corporate fiber footprint for 
the fiscal year 2016 
The revised methodology paper provided by Apple (Fiber Footprint at Apple - Methodology 
Description - V1.1) on March 6, 2017, is considered a sound and appropriate guidance for 
determining the company fiber footprint. Where appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state-of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments. 
This review comprises a check of fiber data for selected products, which are most 
influential to the overall corporate fiber footprint and which represent the full spectrum of 
Apple products. The selection of products for individual reviews has been agreed between 
Apple and Fraunhofer IZM. 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly. Similarly, system boundaries for the corporate and 
retail related fiber usage have been discussed and clarified. 
This review was done remotely. All questions raised in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
fiber footprint is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of fiber data and 
information. The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    
 
Berlin, March 8, 2017 
  
- Karsten Schischke -  - Dr. Nils F. Nissen - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering  Reliability Engineering 
56
