 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CCF Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 2
These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (99%) of Apple Inc. annual corporate 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The 
aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
 Manufacturing Transportation Product Use Recycling 
2016 22.77  1.20  4.86  0.30 
[MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e]
MMT CO2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents 
Including a reported value of 0.38 million metric tons CO2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total CCF is reported to be 29.52 million metric tons CO2e. 
Apple’s CCF includes greenhouse gas emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting 
from Apple renewable energy projects, supplier renewable electricity purchases, and 
supplier renewable electricity installations.  Many of these reductions are part of Apple’s 
Clean Energy Program. Fraunhofer IZM has not verified these emissions reductions. 
 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 corporate carbon footprint 
? is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 
information, and 
? has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 
GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 
2 Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 
A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this CCF review and verification, defining the level of assurance, objectives, 
criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 
As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
? Sales data for FY2016, including accessories and including AppleCare, Apple's 
extended warranty and technical support plans for their devices. 
52
