45Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Denmark has a long tradition of biomass energy generation from 
agricultural waste products. Apple is partnering with Aarhus University 
(Viborg campus) to co-develop an agricultural waste biomass project. 
Methane from the biomass digester reaction will be used to create 
renewable electricity for our data center. Much of the agricultural waste 
going into the digester will come from local farms in a mutually beneficial 
relationship. They bring us their agriculture waste material to use as 
feedstock for the digester and we give them the nutrient-rich by product 
of the digestion process, which they can apply to their fields.
Athenry, Ireland
Our data center in County Galway, Ireland, will be built on recovered land 
that was previously used for commercial lumber. It will provide a forested 
outdoor education space for local schools and a walking trail for the 
community. When it opens, the data center will run on 100 percent clean, 
renewable energy, and will be cooled by natural ventilation, rather than 
mechanical air-conditioning, by taking advantage of the mild Irish climate.
Ireland has one of the strongest coastal wave energy resources of 
anywhere in the world. Apple has partnered with the Sustainable Energy 
Authority of Ireland to support innovative new ways of capturing wave 
energy and converting it to renewable electricity, with Apple agreeing to 
use electricity generated from new wave energy technologies to support 
the Athenry data center. Through this partnership, Apple supports a new 
wave energy technology developed by the Irish company SeaPower and 
recently tested in Galway Bay.
Our colocation facilities 
The vast majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers; 
however, we also use third-party colocation facilities for additional data 
center capacity. While we don’t own these shared facilities and use only a 
portion of their total capacity, we include our portion of their energy use in 
our renewable energy goals. Over 99 percent* of our power for colocation 
facilities is matched with renewable energy generated within the same state 
or NERC region for facilities in the United States, or within the same country 
for those around the world. And we will keep working with the colocation 
suppliers to get to 100 percent. 
Furthermore, we worked with one of our main suppliers of colocation services 
to help them develop the capability to provide renewable energy solutions to 
its customers. This partnership advances Apple’s renewable energy program 
and those of other companies that use this colocation provider.
Beyond the use of our own data centers and colocation facilities, we also  
use third-party computing services to support some of our on-demand  
cloud storage-based services. We encourage these suppliers to adopt a  
100 percent renewable energy strategy for their energy use.
*In calendar year 2016.
