33Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
In 2016, we joined several influential organizations, including:
•  RE100, an initiative by The Climate Group, created to support companies 
that commit to 100 percent renewable energy. Our membership in 
RE100 will enable us to collaborate with other clean energy leaders 
across various sectors, and provide us the opportunity to share our 
approach to driving clean energy in the manufacturing supply chain.
•  ChemSec, a Swedish-based nonprofit that works with decision-makers, 
industry, NGOs, and scientists to achieve a toxic-free environment. 
As members of its Business Group, we will work with like-minded 
companies across a diversity of sectors to refine our knowledge of  
safer materials.
•  The Aluminum Stewardship Initiative, a global, multi-stakeholder, 
nonprofit organization that sets standards and certifies sustainability 
performance. ASI membership is an important piece of our efforts to 
source aluminum responsibly and advance the transition to cleaner 
sources across the entire industry.
Collaborating for joint success.
This year, we’ve continued to work with cross-sector companies, 
researchers, suppliers, thought leaders, and technical experts to  
forge new paths, build unique solutions, and inspire others to continue 
their efforts.
We are building relationships with key academic institutions worldwide. 
Our CEO, Tim Cook, sits on the Advisory Board of Tsinghua University’s 
School of Economics and Management in Beijing, where we are funding 
a $3 million endowed chair professorship focused on Responsible 
Innovation. We also collaborated with Tsinghua to launch an App Innovation 
Contest and a Green Innovators program, focusing on creative solutions 
to environmental challenges, governance, and public administration 
through entrepreneurship.
Our partnership with app developers and customers across the world 
led to Apps for Earth, an initiative that generated over $8 million to 
support World Wildlife Fund’s global environmental projects. The projects, 
spanning all seven continents, will focus on funding conservation in seven 
key areas: 
•  Conserve coastal riches by expanding and reinforcing marine protected 
areas, conserving critical migratory corridors for marine life, and 
protecting the livelihoods of coastal communities for future generations.
•  Combat climate change by piloting low-impact, habitat-friendly energy 
usage in Arctic communities, protecting critical habitat areas of the 
Arctic, and leveraging corporate purchasing activity to power the shift 
to renewables.
