9Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Lowering carbon emissions by focusing on aluminum.
We sell millions of phones. So making even small adjustments to the 
production of iPhone can have a powerful impact on our carbon footprint. 
For instance, we changed how we make the aluminum enclosure because 
the emissions associated with aluminum manufacturing across all Apple 
products represented close to 30 percent of our manufacturing carbon 
footprint. We prioritized aluminum that was smelted using hydroelectricity 
rather than fossil fuels. And we reengineered our manufacturing process to 
reincorporate the scrap aluminum. As a result, the iPhone 7 enclosure uses 
27 percent less virgin aluminum than iPhone 6, and emits 60 percent less 
greenhouse gas emissions. Applying the same approach to the 13-inch 
MacBook Pro with Touch Bar resulted in 48 percent less greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with the aluminum enclosure compared with that of 
the previous-generation MacBook Pro. 
Our goal is to power our facilities world-
wide with 100 percent renewable energy.
In 2016, 96 percent of the electricity we used at our corporate facilities 
came from clean, renewable sources. That number now factors in the 
footprints of not only our offices, retail stores, and the data centers we run 
ourselves but also our product distribution centers and leased, colocated 
data centers. These efforts have lowered emissions from our facilities to 
1 percent of our comprehensive carbon footprint. But our goal is to make 
them entirely renewable. We’ve already reached that goal in every single 
Apple-operated data center and across all our facilities in 24 countries—
including the United States, the United Kingdom, China, and Australia.
Apple’s renewable energy use
Previous generation
13-inch MacBook Pro
Greenhouse gas emissions associated 
with the aluminum enclosure of the 
13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar 
are 48 percent less than the previous 
generation.
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
’10     ’11      ’12      ’13     ‘14      ’15     ’16
Apple (worldwide)
Apple (U.S.)
In just six years, Apple’s use of renewable energy to power its corporate facilities, 
retail stores, and data centers worldwide went from 16 percent in 2010 to 96 percent 
in 2016.
