19Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
We’re finding new ways to keep old materials out  
of landfills
We’re committed to making sure all the waste created by our supply 
chain is reused, recycled, composted, or, when necessary, converted into 
energy. Reaching this goal requires collaboration among multiple Apple 
teams, local governments, and specialty recyclers, but we’ve already seen 
great success. In 2015, our facility in Cork, Ireland, was the first outside 
North America to receive UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill validation. And most 
recently, 17 of our 18 final assembly sites—including all 14 sites in China—
have received UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill validation, diverting more than 
240,000 metric tons of waste from landfills since January 2015. We’ve 
recently expanded this initiative to 25 more suppliers.
When we first started working with suppliers, we found that facilities  
were already diverting on average 70 percent of the waste generated from 
manufacturing, cafeterias, and employee support facilities. The challenge 
was to address the remaining low- or no-value, mixed-waste materials 
that most recyclers will not accept. We worked closely with our suppliers 
to find innovative ways to reduce, recycle, eliminate, or incinerate this 
waste for energy recovery. For example, at many of our iPhone and Apple 
Watch final assembly facilities, we implemented waste sorting on the line 
to separate recyclable materials. We also implemented a component tray 
reuse program for iPhone, allowing single-use trays to flow through the 
supply chain multiple times. At other sites, suppliers established waste 
reduction campaigns and worked with local recyclers to process materials 
not previously accepted. In response to this program, all iPhone and 
Apple Watch final assembly suppliers now have “zero waste” or “green” 
teams to support this program and other environmental improvements. 
The impact of this program extends far beyond our suppliers’ walls: It has 
strengthened local recycling networks, increased the use of recyclable 
and reusable materials, and inspired other component suppliers who want 
to learn how to follow suit.
At our corporate offices and retail stores, we’re creating robust recycling 
and composting programs to minimize the environmental impact of the 
waste we produce. In fiscal year 2016, we generated approximately 
21.6 million pounds of waste, and diverted over 28.2 million pounds of 
materials from landfill through recycling and 13.7 million pounds through 
composting, due in part to a food scraps recovery program launched in 
2016 for our offices in Sunnyvale, California. Our rate of landfill diversion 
was 66 percent in fiscal year 2016. We continue to work to improve our 
rate of landfill diversion through a variety of actions, including expanding 
composting at our corporate campuses, and pursuing a zero waste effort 
at our nearly 490 retail stores. 
Apple disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. We complete regular 
audits of the Transportation, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF), 
where hazardous waste is ultimately sent to be treated, incinerated, or 
recycled. Only facilities we audit and approve are allowed to accept and 
treat the hazardous waste Apple generates. We take this commitment 
seriously—if the TSDFs do not meet our strict standards for environment, 
health, safety, and waste management protocols, we switch facilities.
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16
Landfill diversion rate for  
office waste
Waste, recycling, and compost data  
is collected or estimated for all Apple  
facilities, including our retail stores.
