12Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Our renewable energy strategy
2. Renewable energy
Renewable energy ownership. Where feasible, we produce our own renew-
able energy by building our own renewable energy facilities, including solar 
arrays, wind farms, biogas fuel cells, and micro-hydro generation systems.
Dedicated renewable energy contracts. Where it’s not feasible to build  
our own generation, we sign long-term renewable energy purchase contracts, 
supporting new, local projects that meet our robust renewable energy  
sourcing principles. 
Grid purchased renewable energy and environmental attributes. In cases 
where we aren’t able to create new renewable energy projects ourselves due to 
local constraints, we directly purchase renewable energy from newer projects in 
nearby markets, or through available utility green energy programs. When these 
options are not available, we are willing to procure strong renewable energy 
credits (RECs) tied to recently constructed renewable energy projects, applying 
the same rigor to our grid-purchased renewables as we do to our Apple-created 
renewables. When Apple acquires RECs, we require that they are Green-e Energy 
certified and come from the same power grid—and preferably the same state—
as the Apple facility they support.
1. Energy efficiency
An important first step in 
managing energy use is to 
ensure our facilities use 
as little as possible. That’s 
why we design them for 
maximum energy efficiency 
and regularly audit our facility 
energy use to identify further 
opportunities for energy 
optimization.
Our renewable energy sourcing principles. 
We encounter many legal and regulatory frameworks around the world that limit our renewable energy supply 
options. In each location, we endeavor to choose the strongest approach available to us as defined by these 
guiding principles.
Displacement. We seek to displace more-polluting forms of energy in the same electric grid region as our  
facilities. We accomplish this by taking power directly from Apple-owned installations and by delivering into  
the grid an amount of renewable energy equal to the amount of energy we take from that grid.
Additionality. We strive to create new clean energy that adds to the energy sources already delivering to the  
grid. This generally means participating in renewable energy projects that would not have been built without 
Apple’s involvement. We make sure that the energy we count toward our goals is not counted toward regulatory 
obligations that utilities must meet, such as the Renewable Portfolio Standards adopted by many states.
Accountability. We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply resources, and use third-party  
registries such as WREGIS and NC-RETS, certification programs such as Green-e Energy, and contractual  
provisions to ensure that all renewable energy supplied to Apple is supplied only to Apple. When no such  
system exists, we work with industry partners and governmental entities to create them.
Wind Water Biogas fuel cell Geothermal Solar
