32Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Better Together
Can we be a ripple in the pond  
to inspire greater change? 
No one company can solve the world’s challenges alone. So we engage 
across sectors, listen to diverse perspectives, and share the latest 
research to identify the solutions.
For 2016, Apple increased our focus on inspiring others, influencing  
public policy, and contributing to improving global outcomes beyond  
the borders of our business interests. We deepened our engagement  
with key organizations, shared our vision and our journey at important 
conferences and events, collaborated with peer organizations, supported 
legislative efforts through advocacy, and found new ways to engage with 
our customers on the importance of protecting our planet.
Joining forces with other organizations.
We’ve increased our memberships and engagement in industry, 
sustainability, and cross-sector organizations. These organizations 
provide the opportunity for us to share our knowledge while learning  
from subject-matter experts in strategic areas. We prioritize associations 
that share our values, passion, and deeply held belief that companies  
can make a difference. 
Great relationships are built over time. So we have renewed our 
commitments to Ceres, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Corporate 
Eco Forum, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD), the GreenBiz Executive Network and the Paulson Institute, 
among others. And we’ve expanded our relationship with Advanced 
Energy Economy (AEE), becoming members of its Leadership Council.
We formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, made up of some of 
the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics. The board 
helps us identify innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins from our 
supply chain. We also invite experts from around the world to meet with 
leaders at Apple. Together, we focus on eliminating toxins at each stage  
of our process. 
