22Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
The vast majority of our product water footprint is found in manufacturing, 
so in 2013 we established the supplier Clean Water Program to help our 
partners conserve water and prevent water pollution. We put a special 
emphasis on working with suppliers with high water usage and in water 
scarce regions, as well as makers of components that our life cycle water 
assessments have identified as particularly water-intensive. These  
life cycle assessments include water that’s consumed in energy production—
such as for oil extraction, distillation, and processing—as well as non-
energy sources including water consumed during metals processing and 
product recycling. Through employee training, baseline assessments, 
performance evaluations, and technical support, we helped our suppliers 
conserve more than 3 billion gallons of water in 2016 alone, increasing 
average water reuse to 36 percent across 86 sites. And since many of our 
suppliers also build components for other companies, we’re reducing the 
water footprint of non-Apple products too.
Since our Clean Water Program began, 
we’ve helped our suppliers save more 
than 8 billion gallons of water—enough 
to provide every person on the planet 
with 18 glasses of water.
8 billion
0
50
100
150
200
250
Retail StoresCorporate OfficesData Centers
Millions of gallons
Low
Low-Medium
Medium-High
High
We mapped our water use to different 
levels of water risk (as defined by 
WRI’s Aqueduct tool) across the world 
to understand where we should be 
focusing our conservation efforts. Water 
risk takes into consideration indicators 
such as water scarcity, business risk, 
and habitat and livelihood impact to the 
basins in which we operate.
Source: World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct, 
www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct
How we think about water.
The impact of water use varies significantly depending on the watershed 
conditions where the water is being used. So we’ve continued to look 
at more sophisticated ways to measure and analyze our water use. The 
way we manage water is different based on the climate and nature of our 
operations across our facilities, whether it’s our data centers, corporate 
offices, manufacturing sites, or retail stores. We map our global water 
use against scarcity indicators. This analysis helps us prioritize our 
conservation efforts across our operations.
Corporate water use by level of risk (FY2016)
