Click here for more information on how 
we calculate our carbon footprint using 
life cycle analysis.
6Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Our comprehensive 2016 carbon footprint. 
29,500,000
metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions
77%
Manufacturing
17%
Product Usage
4%
Product
Transportation
1%
Corporate
Facilities
1%
Recycling
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing a smaller footprint. 
Manufacturing makes up 77 percent of our carbon footprint. Most of  
it is due to carbon emissions from the electricity used to make our  
products—over 60 percent of our manufacturing emissions. So we’re 
sourcing lower-carbon materials, partnering with our suppliers around 
the world to reduce their current energy use, and helping them switch 
to renewable energy. We believe that together we can transform the 
manufacturing process to dramatically reduce emissions.
We’re helping our suppliers switch to renewable energy.
Since the electricity used to process raw materials, make parts, and 
assemble our products is the largest contributor to our overall carbon 
footprint, we’re helping our suppliers reduce the amount of energy  
they use.
In 2015, we started engaging directly with suppliers to find ways to 
reduce their energy use, such as replacing outdated or inefficient  
heating, cooling, and lighting systems; repairing compressed air leaks; 
and recovering waste heat. We aim to promote continual improvement, 
build technical capabilities, and increase awareness of the environmental 
and financial benefits of energy efficiency.
By the end of 2016, we conducted 34 energy audits at supplier facilities. 
These audits identified over $55 million in annual savings opportunities, 
with an average payback period of about 1.4 years. In 2016, the energy 
efficiency improvements made by suppliers avoided more than 150,000 
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO?e).²
In 2016, we implemented an energy training program and conducted 
training for 19 supplier sites. Trainees from these supplier sites applied 
their skills and identified and implemented additional energy efficiency 
projects. We are continuing to expand the program for even greater 
impact, focusing on creating systems to educate and reach a broader 
supplier base.
Top contributors to our  
manufacturing carbon footprint
35% Integrated Circuits 
29% Aluminum 
13%  Boards and Flexes¹ 
5% Display 
4%  Glass
