7Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Our efforts go beyond energy efficiency to spur the development and 
procurement of renewable energy within our global supply chain. We’re 
investing in renewable energy projects to address upstream emissions that 
are beyond the influence of our direct suppliers. To date, Apple has installed 
485 megawatts of wind and solar projects across six provinces of China. 
Using these projects as a model, our direct suppliers are developing their 
own renewable energy projects, many of which are already under way.  
It’s all part of the clean energy program we launched in 2015.
As part of our clean energy program, Apple and our suppliers will generate 
and procure more than 4 gigawatts of new clean power worldwide by 
2020, including 2 gigawatts in China alone, and use it to reduce emissions 
associated with manufacturing. Already, commitments made as of April 
2017 represent a total of 2 gigawatts. Once completed, the 4 gigawatts of 
clean power will represent 30 percent of our current manufacturing carbon 
footprint. Because it can be difficult for suppliers to access clean energy, 
we also launched the Clean Energy Portal. It offers regional guidance and 
tools for procuring clean energy and is available in the languages spoken 
where the majority of our manufacturing takes place—including Mandarin, 
Japanese, and Korean.
Progress toward 4 gigawatts
To date, seven suppliers have committed to 100 percent clean energy for Apple  
production. In addition, Apple has installed 485 megawatts of wind and solar  
projects across six provinces of China to address upstream emissions and serve  
as a model for suppliers.
Apple is constantly evaluating the global energy policy landscape to  
best support suppliers and regulations that promote energy efficiency 
and renewable energy. Renewable technologies are rapidly developing, 
the economics of renewable energy are evolving, and energy and carbon 
policies are in flux. We engage with governments in our key manufacturing 
markets, ensure that our program is aligned with their priorities, and 
encourage policies that scale renewable energy capacity and enable utility 
customers to choose their energy source. While some of our suppliers 
have deep expertise in energy and climate change, many do not. Through 
the Clean Energy Portal, Apple is now able to share our global insights and 
updates on renewable energy with hundreds of manufacturers around the 
world. We’re giving manufacturers better technical, economic, and policy 
data to accelerate their transition to clean energy.
Partners committed to  
100 percent renewable energy  
for Apple production by 2018
• Biel Crystal Manufactory Ltd.
• Catcher Technology
• Compal Electronics
• Ibiden
• Lens Technology
• Solvay Specialty Polymers
• Sunwoda Electronics
An increasing number of suppliers  
have committed to using only renewable 
energy to produce Apple parts and 
products.
Download Supplier Update  ??
Our 4 gigawatts of renewable energy 
projects by 2020 will produce clean 
power equivalent to taking more than 
1.5 million cars off the road every year 
for over 20 years.³
0    1    2    3    4
Operational
Committed
Goal
