23Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
We’re not just protecting forests. We’re protecting future  
generations of them.
Forests provide wood fiber for the paper we use in our packaging. They 
also clean our air, purify our water, and shelter wildlife. So we work hard  
to minimize our impact by sourcing paper responsibly and using it as  
efficiently as possible. But that’s not enough. The world’s forests still  
face widespread destruction due to illegal logging, poor management,  
and aggressive land development. That’s why we’re determined to protect  
and create enough sustainably managed forests around the world to  
cover all our packaging needs and produce fiber for generations.?
Using paper more efficiently.
We’re constantly looking for ways to make our packaging smaller, creating 
technologies that use paper more efficiently, and using recycled paper 
whenever we can. In fiscal year 2016, we used 131,000 metric tons of 
fiber, of which 62 percent was recycled, 38 percent was virgin fiber from 
responsibly managed sources, and less than 1 percent was virgin fiber 
that did not comply with our sustainable fiber specification. We’re also 
designing our packaging to use fewer plastics, in favor of renewable, 
responsibly sourced fiber. For example, the accessory tray in the iPhone 7 
box is made from a mix of sustainably harvested bamboo fiber and bagasse, 
a waste by-product of sugarcane manufacturing.
Fiscal year 2016 fiber footprint
131,000
metric tons
 62% 38% <1%
 Recycled fiber Responsibly sourced fiber Other virgin fiber
   
Our fiscal year 2016 fiber footprint includes all paper used to package and ship  
products, as well as all in-box paper and paper retail bags. This year, we also 
included our corporate paper use, which accounts for about 1 percent of our total 
footprint. We calculate our fiber footprint to reflect fiber losses during the paper 
production process.
Note: Due to rounding, total percentages don’t add up to 100.
All our suppliers must adhere to 
Our sustainable fiber specification.
Download now  ??
