24Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Sourcing virgin paper responsibly.
When we use virgin paper in our packaging, our suppliers must source it 
from sustainably managed forests or controlled wood sources. And we 
conduct regular audits to ensure that they adhere to our specifications. 
In fiscal year 2016, over 99 percent of the paper used in our packaging 
and corporate offices was from either sustainably managed forests or 
controlled wood or recycled sources.
53%
The 21.5-inch iMac product packaging 
consumes 53 percent less volume and 
weighs 35 percent less than packaging 
for the original 15-inch iMac.
84%
U.S. product packaging of iPhone 7  
uses 84 percent less plastic than in the 
previous-generation iPhone packaging 
and contains 60 percent recycled 
content.
100%
For the paper used in packaging 
iPad Pro, 100 percent comes from 
responsibly managed forests or is made 
from post-consumer recycled content.
Protecting sustainable forests.
We continue to protect and create sustainable working forests because 
when properly managed, they can provide abundant resources for a long 
time. In addition to specifying that all of our virgin fiber be sourced from 
responsibly managed forests, we also wanted to make sure we weren’t 
diminishing the world’s supply of responsibly sourced paper. So we 
set a goal to protect or create enough responsibly managed forests to 
cover all of our product packaging needs. In 2017, we met this goal for 
the first time: Yearly production from our forest conservation projects 
is now greater than the amount of virgin fiber used in Apple’s product 
packaging during fiscal year 2016. As our paper demands grow and 
change, we will continue protecting and creating enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all our packaging needs.
In partnership with The Conservation Fund, we’ve protected 36,000 
acres of sustainable forest in the Eastern United States. In Maine, we’re 
protecting more than 32,400 acres in the Reed Forest, which includes 
wetlands and upland forest habitats that are important for numerous 
wildlife species in Maine’s iconic North Woods. This project adds to more 
than a million acres of conserved lands and interconnected forest habitat 
that stretches into Canada, and provides habitat to rare and threatened 
