Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 57
Appendix D
Environmental Health and Safety Policy 
Statement
Mission statement
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and  
safety of our employees, customers and the global communities where  
we operate.
We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety 
management practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer  
technologically innovative products and services while conserving and 
enhancing resources for future generations.
Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health  
and safety management systems and in the environmental quality of our 
products, processes, and services.
Guiding principles
Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety  
requirements. We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring  
ongoing performance results and through periodic management reviews.
Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will 
adopt our own standards to protect human health and the environment.
Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible 
public policy that enhance environmental quality, health and safety.
Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety  
principles and practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers.
Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs  
to Apple employees and stakeholders.
Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote 
energy efficiency, and protect the environment.
Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve 
energy and materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life 
cycle including design, manufacture, use, and end-of-life management.
Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to  
fulfill and sustain Apple’s environmental, health and safety management 
systems and policy.
Luca Maestri 
Senior Vice President and CFO 
January 2017
