25Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
plants and animals like the elusive Canada lynx. The Reed Forest is 
certified to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry 
Initiative (SFI) standards. In late 2016, Apple and The Conservation Fund 
donated a conservation easement to the Forest Society of Maine for the 
entire 32,400-acre property. The conservation easement ensures forests 
at Reed won’t be developed or converted to other uses, and promotes 
economically and ecologically sustainable production of fiber and other 
wood products. Apple supported the Fund’s donation of an endowment to 
the Forest Society of Maine, which will help ensure that the easement can 
be monitored and enforced for centuries to come.
In North Carolina, we’re protecting more than 3600 acres of pine and 
hardwood forest in Brunswick County, along the southern coast of North 
Carolina. This property sits adjacent to the 17,000-acre Green Swamp 
Preserve, which helps enable connectivity and halts fragmentation for 
this National Natural Landmark. With high-quality pine savannas, along 
with striking and rare plants and flowers, like the carnivorous Venus fly 
trap, Brunswick has long been a conservation priority for local and state 
partners. The Conservation Fund is working to place a conservation 
easement to make sure the Brunswick forest stays a forest. The Brunswick 
forest is certified to the SFI standard. 
In 2015, we announced a five-year partnership with World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF) to transition up to one million acres of forest, across southern 
provinces of China, into responsible management by 2020. WWF’s work  
has three primary components:
1. Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by 
creating up to 300,000 acres of FSC–certified forests, and up to 700,000 
acres of forests under improved management.
2. Improve China’s policy framework to encourage responsible forest 
management. 
3. Establish long-term market incentives in China for responsibly sourced 
paper. 
In just two years, we’re close to achieving the first goal by transitioning 
approximately 320,000 acres of forest in China—nearly 500 square miles 
and 20,000 acres more than the project goal—toward FSC certification. This  
progress was made through collaboration with two companies in Hunan and  
Guangxi provinces, one of which will be the largest FSC-certified plantation 
area in the Chinese pulp and paper sector. WWF worked with both companies 
to create forest management plans and train their employees to identify 
High Conservation Value Forest—both necessary for FSC certification.
100%
We have protected or created enough 
responsibly managed forests to cover the 
49,000 metric tons of virgin paper we 
used in our packaging in fiscal year 2016. 
