100%
Apple data centers are powered by  
100 percent renewable energy.
14Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Product Usage
We take responsibility for every watt  
of power you use on your device.
The energy it takes to run your device during its expected lifespan is 
added to our carbon footprint. That includes the energy it takes to  
charge your device, which often comes from carbon-intensive sources 
such as coal or natural gas. So we’re always developing new ways to make 
our products as efficient as possible. For example, macOS puts storage 
media to sleep and runs processors in an ultralow power mode when 
you’re not hard at work. And when you are, it uses less energy for apps 
that are open but not visible, and pauses animated website plug-ins until 
you give the OK. It can even idle the processor to its lowest power state 
between keystrokes and while the display is on. These energy savings 
might seem tiny, but when multiplied by every Apple computer in the 
world, they’re huge.
iMessage, FaceTime, and Siri run on 100 percent  
renewable energy. 
Every time you send an iMessage, make a FaceTime call, ask Siri a 
question, download a song, or share a photo, it takes energy. We’re proud 
to say that all those tasks are handled by Apple data servers running on 
100 percent renewable energy. All told, in 2015 our data centers avoided 
187,000 metric tons of CO?e emissions. And in 2016, that number grew 
to more than 330,000 metric tons. When we need additional capacity, 
we work with third-party data centers. Even though we don’t own these 
colocation facilities, and share them with other companies, we still 
include them in our renewable energy goals. So we’re working with these 
providers to get them to 100 percent renewable energy too. And we’re 
proud that in 2016, more than 99 percent of their electricity came from 
renewable sources.
Each of our data centers has unique design features that reflect the 
climate and other aspects specific to its location. Our data centers are 
built with the environment in mind, often including innovative energy 
efficiency measures. Our data centers in North Carolina, Oregon, and 
Nevada earned LEED Platinum certification from the U.S. Green Building 
Council—the highest level possible. For more information about Apple’s 
industry-leading efforts to green our data centers, see Appendix B.
