28Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Safer Materials
How do we make sure our products stay  
safe for people and planet?
We run our own environmental  
testing lab. 
To protect people and the planet, we set strict standards on the  
materials used in our devices, often going far beyond what’s required 
by law. We also built the Environmental Testing Lab, where our chemists 
and toxicologists look for any potentially harmful substances rather than 
waiting for a third party to identify them for us. One process we use 
involves laser-based instruments—just like the one used by the Mars 
rover to analyze soil samples—to ensure that our products are free of 
beryllium. The lab also uses tools like inductively coupled plasma mass 
spectrometry, X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, and ion, liquid, or gas 
chromatography. If we find an issue, we work with the supplier to correct 
it. Since creating our Cupertino Environmental Testing Lab in 2006, we’ve 
grown it to over 20 times its original size, and have regularly updated it 
with state-of-the-art equipment. We’ve also been building out testing labs 
at our manufacturing facilities to test and validate products throughout 
the manufacturing process.
Our scientists have cataloged and analyzed more than  
20,000 individual parts.
We started our Full Material Disclosure program to identify all the 
substances we use in all the parts we use. We’ve already looked at more 
than 20,000 individual components out of the 40,000 present in all our 
products, prioritizing materials that come into frequent skin contact and 
those present in greatest quantity, and we get data on more parts every 
day. We assess the different chemicals in those components using  
18 different criteria. This helps us understand their effect on people’s 
health and on the environment.
Learn more about how Apple is  
integrating toxicological assessments 
into our materials selection process. 
Download the white paper  ??
