17Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
To prioritize which materials to tackle first, we created Material Risk 
Profiles for 44 elements in our products. The profiles identified global 
environmental, social, and supply risk factors spanning the life of each 
material. We then combined the risk profiles with data that’s more specific 
to Apple, like how much of a material we use, how unique our use is, or 
where we think we can create the most change. The results from our first 
round of analysis reinforced the need to work on aluminum—which we had 
already identified as a priority through our carbon footprint work—and on 
materials like tin and cobalt. 
As we embrace the circular economy and embark on this journey, we’re 
tailoring our approach to the specific properties of each material and how 
we use it. Each project is a bit different.
For aluminum, we found that one of the best sources of recycled material 
was our own products and processes. This is because we specify such  
a high grade of the material—it’s part of what makes our products so 
strong and durable. Today, the only way to keep aluminum at this level  
of quality is to keep a clean material stream—not to mix it with existing 
scrap aluminum, which is what typically happens at recycling facilities.  
Our challenge is to recover the aluminum from our products without 
degrading its quality.
That’s why our investments in new recycling technologies are so 
important. Existing techniques, such as shredding, only recover a few 
kinds of materials and often diminish their quality. So we invented Liam, 
a line of robots that can quickly disassemble iPhone 6, sorting its high-
quality components with the goal of reducing the need to mine more 
resources from the earth. With two Liam lines up and running, we can 
take apart up to 2.4 million phones a year. It’s an experiment in recycling 
technology that’s teaching us a lot, and we hope this kind of thinking will 
inspire others in our industry.
We’ve already begun using the reclaimed aluminum to build new devices. 
We took aluminum enclosures Liam recovered from iPhone 6, melted 
them down, and reused the material to create Mac mini computers that 
we use in our iPhone final assembly facilities. We wanted to show it was 
possible to use our own scrap to build new products. Now we’re looking 
for opportunities to expand this pilot.
For tin, we took a different approach. Unlike aluminum, there is an existing 
market supply of recycled tin that meets our quality standards. So we 
are tapping into that supply for iPhone 6s, and now using 100 percent 
recycled tin for the solder on the main logic board, where the majority of 
tin in the device is found.7
Learn more about Liam, Apple’s  
experiment in disassembly technology.
Download the white paper  ??
