30Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Setting high standards for the safety of our products.  
And the people who help make them. 
We also work to protect the health and safety of the people who work in 
our supply chain. The standards we set for our suppliers go far beyond 
what’s required by law, like our Regulated Substances Specification 
(RSS) list, which identifies the toxic chemicals we limit or prohibit in our 
manufacturing processes and products. We lead audits that inventory 
chemical purchasing and map chemicals across our supply chain. During 
these audits, we also review our suppliers’ hazard assessments, industrial 
hygiene monitoring, risk controls, hazard communication, worker training, 
medical surveillance records, and chemical spill prevention plans. To date, 
we’ve conducted over 40 hazard assessments for all the chemicals in the 
cleaners and degreasers used in our final assembly sites. We’ve removed 
benzene, n-hexane, toluene, and chlorinated organic compounds from 
all of our final assembly sites, and we continue to work with our suppliers 
to help them better manage chemicals used in manufacturing processes. 
And for suppliers with higher-than-average risks of occupational health 
exposure, we work with them even more closely to assess and improve 
chemical management practices. 
In addition to mapping chemical use annually across all final assembly 
sites, our team of experts works with suppliers to assess their 
manufacturing process and identify substitutions or opportunities 
for reenginering wherever possible. We’ve already assessed 81 
manufacturing sites, including all 18 of our final assembly sites and  
63 subcomponent supplier sites—together employing approximately 
860,000 workers. And we plan to assess 50 more sites in 2017. 
100%
At our 18 final assembly facilities,  
100 percent of all process chemicals 
were free of Apple-restricted  
substances.
All our suppliers have to adhere to our 
Regulated Substances Specification. 
Download now  ??
