Can we power a global business with the sun, wind, and water?
Can we get 100 percent of our supply chain to move to 100 percent 
renewable energy?
Can we one day stop mining the earth altogether?
Can we use only 100 percent recycled and responsibly sourced  
paper in our packaging?
Can we improve on the world’s best materials?
That’s Apple: asking bold questions, tackling big problems, and relentlessly 
innovating to solve them. The approach also lies at the heart of our global 
environmental strategy—driving us to make not just the best products in 
the world, but the best products for the world.
Apple’s 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 
2016, is our tenth annual update. It highlights the ambitions we have set 
for ourselves and our progress toward meeting them. We remain focused 
on three priorities through which we—and our stakeholders—believe 
Apple can make the biggest difference: 
• Reduce our impact on climate change by using renewable energy  
sources and driving energy efficiency in our products and facilities. 
• Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive. 
• Pioneer the use of safer materials in our products and processes.
We still have a long way to go and a lot to learn. But we’re making 
tremendous progress.
In 2016, 96 percent of the electricity used at our global facilities came  
from renewable energy, reducing our carbon emissions by nearly 585,000 
metric tons. We’re 100 percent renewable in 24 countries—and all of 
Apple’s data centers. 
Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, 
Apple’s Vice President of Environment, 
Policy and Social Initiatives, reporting 
directly to CEO Tim Cook. The Office of 
Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives 
works with teams across Apple to set 
strategy, engage stakeholders, and 
communicate progress. Our integrated 
approach means that decisions about 
Apple values, including environment, are 
reviewed and supported at the highest 
levels of the company. 
3Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Environmental Responsibility at Apple
To ask less of the planet,  
we’re asking more of ourselves.
