10Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
We’re building the greenest corporate headquarters  
on the planet.
Apple Park in Cupertino is on track to be the largest LEED Platinum–certified  
office building in North America—and that includes facilities dedicated to 
energy-intensive research and development. It’s powered by 100 percent 
renewable energy, 75 percent of which is generated onsite by a 17-megawatt 
rooftop solar installation and 4 megawatts of baseload biogas fuel cells. Any 
additional energy required is drawn from the California Flats Solar Project  
in nearby Monterey County. When the building has less use—on weekends, 
for example—it will actually generate renewable energy that’s delivered to 
Pacific Gas and Electric for use in the public grid. Over 80 percent of the  
new campus is open space with more than 9000 drought-tolerant trees. 
Most of them are oak, and many are shade and fruit trees. We also reclaimed 
old-growth oak trees from California landscapes where they would otherwise 
have been destroyed. To conserve water, the new campus uses 75 percent 
recycled nonpotable water to care for its dense forest and to run other onsite 
facilities where fresh water isn’t required.
In 2016, Apple opened a new 38-acre campus in Austin, Texas, housing 
more than 5300 employees. The project is expected to be certified to 
the Gold level of the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED rating system. 
The development’s environmental design features include LED lighting, 
high-efficiency water fixtures, stormwater detention ponds and wetland 
treatment, and native drought-tolerant plants, which will be irrigated using 
a 600,000-gallon rainwater cistern. Together, the environmental design 
features are expected to save over 6,692,000 kilowatt-hours, 26,700 therms 
of energy, and 4,336,200 gallons of water each year, compared to local 
building code requirements. During construction, 94 percent of building 
demolition waste was either reused or recycled. In addition, the Austin 
campus contains a 1.4-megawatt distributed rooftop solar installation, which 
is anticipated to generate up to 1,959,900 kilowatt-hours of renewable 
energy each year. Any additional electricity needs will be covered by the local 
utility’s 100 percent renewable green energy program. The campus’s central 
plant also makes use of thermal ice storage, making ice at night to be used 
for daytime cooling, reducing the draw on the power grid during peak times.
Apple Park is populated by over 9000 
trees, including more than 7000 newly 
planted shade and fruit trees.
95 percent of the material from  
the demolished buildings at the site  
was recycled or reused in the new 
Apple campus.
