21Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016
Using the water risk analyses we began in 2015, we have targeted water 
conservation efforts at some of our highest-priority locations, based on 
water stress and use. These include our offices in Santa Clara Valley and 
Israel, as well as our data centers. In Santa Clara Valley, we continued to 
expand our deployment of high-definition flow sensors and sub-meters in 
our landscaping. This will reduce irrigation water use by up to 30 percent 
compared with fiscal year 2015—saving about 15.3 million gallons per year. 
Once opened, Apple Park will use recycled water from the city of Sunnyvale 
for flushing, cooling and irrigation needs, reducing our freshwater usage by 
over 20 million gallons annually. In Israel, our buildings have installed a smart 
water monitoring and leak detection system to conserve water, a system 
that is now being tested in Santa Clara Valley offices. As a result of these 
conservation efforts, our corporate water use per employee declined by  
2 percent in fiscal year 2016.
We also installed extensive sub-metering at our data centers to pinpoint 
areas of use, detect leakage, and develop better ways to conserve  
water. At our Maiden data center, our newest building uses captured  
rainwater for cooling, cutting our water needs by 50 percent from  
previous designs. Today, recycled water makes up 1 percent of our water 
usage across all facilities, and we continue to look for opportunities to  
reuse and recycle water. For example, we are working with the city of 
Prineville, Oregon, to build a wastewater treatment plant that will supply  
our cooling needs, reducing our reliance on potable water and leaving it 
available for other users. 
We’re planting more than 9000 drought-
resistant trees at our new campus in 
Cupertino. We selected many tree  
varieties that were native to the area  
as well as others that could thrive in  
a range of climate change scenarios. 
