Healthier food for all
We aim to make healthier food more affordable and 
more easily accessible. We continue to work toward 
improving the nutritional quality of our U.S.  
private-brand products.
To help customers more easily identify more 
nutritious food options, we worked with regulators 
and experts to develop the Great for You icon. 
Products identified with the Great for You icon 
have met nutrition criteria informed by the 
latest science and guidance from the 2015-2020 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture and Institute of Medicine. The Great 
for You initiative has been recognized by the 
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as a leading 
nutrition program. For more information, please visit 
the Great for You section of our website.
Philanthropy 
Walmart and the Walmart Foundation have 
made substantial investments designed 
to improve access to and availability of 
healthier food and increase people’s 
confidence to select, prepare and serve 
healthier food. Through Walmart’s food 
donations and additional philanthropic 
investments from Walmart and the Walmart 
Foundation, we met the goal we set in 
FY2014 to provide 4 billion meals to people 
in need by 2020, largely through the 
donation of unsold food. As of November 
2018, we had also put funding in place 
to reach 4 million people with nutrition 
education. In FY2019, Walmart stores, clubs 
and distribution centers in the U.S. donated 
more than 640 million pounds of food, over 
55% of which was fruits, vegetables and 
meat. Globally, Walmart donated a total of 
720 million pounds of food in FY2019.  
 
For more information on our hunger relief 
and nutrition education efforts, please visit 
Walmart.org. 
Product safety
We are committed to providing our customers 
and members with access to safe and affordable 
merchandise. We require our suppliers to meet all 
applicable laws, regulations and company-specific 
requirements for all items offered for sale.
These laws and regulations help ensure that products 
sold to consumers meet design, manufacturing 
and safety standards to reduce the risk of harm to 
customers. Our Product Safety Compliance team has 
implemented product-safety-related processes and 
procedures, which include:
• Monitoring laws, regulations, and standards
• Creating and communicating product 
requirements
• Assessing supplier and product performance
• Item testing, verification, and monitoring
• Managing incident reports, product removals,  
and regulatory reporting
64
