Freedom of association
One of our enduring core values since Sam Walton 
founded the company is Respect for the Individual. 
Our associate freedom of  
association position
Consistent with applicable law and practice, 
Walmart respects the rights of associates 
to join, form or not to join an employee 
association or trade union of their choice 
without interference. Associates should 
exercise these rights in an informed 
manner, and with the benefit of thoughtful 
consideration and available information. In the 
exercise of these rights, we believe in the free 
exchange of ideas, opinions and information, 
provided there is no interference.  
These rights are defined under applicable national 
law and practice in the countries in which Walmart 
operates and from which Walmart sources the 
products we sell.
Globally, Walmart has associates who are represented 
by some form of collective bargaining in more than 
half of the 27 markets where we operate. The U.S. 
model is employee choice. 
Fostering inclusion
Our people and culture help make Walmart successful. 
We are committed to building a diverse workforce 
that represents the more than approximately 
275 million customers who choose to shop with us in-
store or online every week. A variety of perspectives 
enriches our culture, leads to innovative solutions 
for our business and enables us to better meet the 
needs of a diverse customer base. We aim to develop 
inclusive leaders and an inclusive culture, while also 
growing the pipeline of women and people of color 
at every level. Walmart is a signatory to Catalyst CEO 
Champions for Change, CEO Action for Diversity & 
Inclusion and Paradigm for Parity. 
Walmart’s work to create a more inclusive 
company has been recognized by indices such 
as the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, the 
Disability Equality Index and the Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index, among others. 
A truly inclusive workplace culture is one where all 
associates feel empowered to bring their authentic 
selves to work every day.
51
