We engage with our stakeholders as outlined below:
Associates 
Our associates are the core of our business, and 
we engage with them in a variety of ways including: 
personal one-on-one interaction, team meetings, 
cascaded leadership communications, company 
intranet, Facebook Workplace and other social 
media, as well as traditional digital communications 
such as email. We use the feedback we receive 
from our associates to understand the issues that 
are paramount to them, and we try to respond as 
effectively as possible. 
Transparency and communication are key to driving 
Walmart’s internal culture of trust, and we are 
committed to continual improvement in these efforts. 
For more on how we engage with our associates and 
integrate their feedback into the business, see our 
Associate voice section.  
Customers 
Understanding the needs of our customers is a 
top priority. We use a variety of channels to solicit 
feedback and communicate with our customers. 
These include: 
•	 Focused research through surveys and in- 
person discussions 
•	 Social media interaction through managed 
Facebook and Twitter pages
•	 In-person communication in our stores
•	 Outreach through email and phone, as well as 
communication through our customer call centers
We have listened to our customers’ questions 
regarding topics such as product country of origin, 
nutrition profile of foods, ingredients and responsible 
sourcing, and are working to respond to their 
preferences. 
Suppliers and others in the supply chain 
An important lever in achieving the system-wide 
change we aspire to is the power of our purchase 
orders and our relationships with our suppliers. 
Therefore, we use multiple channels to communicate 
with them. We engage with our suppliers to share our 
standards and expectations; provide trainings; receive 
their feedback and input on a variety of topics; and 
help improve the sustainability of supply chains.  
For example: 
•	 Walmart’s Responsible Sourcing Academy houses 
information about our standards for worker 
safety in factories, training, best practices and 
educational materials developed by third parties 
and by Walmart.
•	 We provide additional outreach and support 
for minority- and women-owned businesses to 
increase the diversity of our supplier pipeline. 
72
