Measuring progress
Using engagement survey feedback, metrics 
on representation and inclusion indices, we’re 
measuring our progress and informing future 
priorities. Introduced in 2016, our CDI scorecard 
has proven to be a valuable tool, providing a 
biannual, actionable report that is reviewed by 
senior management. 
Fair pay
Fairness in pay is an important issue for our 
company. We are committed to creating a 
performance culture where associates are 
rewarded based on meaningful factors such as 
qualifications, experience, performance and the 
type of work they do. 
Our compensation plans and practices are 
designed to comply with applicable laws that 
require companies to pay their employees fairly 
and equitably. In the U.S., for example, relevant 
laws include Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the 
Equal Pay Act, both of which require that men  
and women be given equal pay for equal work. 
Salary and wage ranges for our associates are based 
on objective factors, regardless of gender or race. 
We continually review our processes to make  
sure we are living up to our commitment to  
fair-pay practices. 
Read more about Diversity & Inclusion programs 
and data. 
Retail opportunity across the sector
Our work to promote economic opportunity 
extends beyond our company. In 2015, Walmart 
and the Walmart Foundation launched the Retail 
Opportunity Initiative, a five-year philanthropic 
effort to accelerate retail and related sector 
employee advancement. 
Through the end of FY2019, Walmart and the 
Walmart Foundation had invested more than  
$100 million in organizations working to accelerate 
retail and related sector employee advancement. 
The initiative includes: 
• Generating and sharing insights into retail as a 
sector of opportunity
• Showing how the retail sector can offer upward 
mobility to frontline workers
• Building innovative approaches to training 
workers and providing opportunities for 
advancement
• Engaging employers, training providers and 
others to share best practices and improve 
incumbent worker training and advancement in 
local workforce ecosystems  
Learn more about our work under the Retail 
Opportunity Initiative at Walmart.org.
53
