Business exists to serve society. 
For Walmart, this is true in many ways: providing 
customers with convenient access to affordable 
food and other products; employing associates; 
helping suppliers grow their businesses that in turn 
employ others; generating tax dollars that help 
support community life; providing a return  
to shareholders.
The most successful businesses do such things  
but go one step further — they aim in the long 
term to improve the systems on which they rely, 
such as retail workforce development or food 
supply chains. Why? Not only to build customer 
trust, but also to enhance supply security,  
improve the quality of products and services, 
manage costs and expenses more effectively, 
generate new revenue streams, and attract and 
retain talent. Strengthening these systems is not 
only the responsible thing to do — it maximizes 
business value. 
By many measures, there has never been a better 
time to be alive than today. Yet society faces many 
challenges. While global prosperity has increased, 
so has inequality; and studies point to a skills gap 
that needs to be addressed to help people advance 
economically, especially as evolving technologies 
change the nature of work. Meanwhile, increasing 
global demand is placing unsustainable pressure on 
the climate and natural ecosystems, challenging 
us all to shift from a “take-make-dispose” system 
of production and consumption to a circular, 
regenerative approach.
That’s why our approach to environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) issues goes beyond 
minimizing our own footprint or mitigating risk. 
We take a more transformative approach: working 
to spark collective action in an effort to alter the 
sector in the long term for environmental, social 
and economic sustainability. 
So in the case of economic opportunity for retail 
associates, for example, we aim not only to help 
people enter the workforce with competitive 
wages, but also to help them build skills needed to 
advance, whether at Walmart or beyond. We want 
to build a skills-based employment system, with 
ladders of opportunity, at scale, that is inclusive 
and reflective of our communities. 
And when it comes to human rights in supply 
chains, we aim not only to source responsibly, but 
also to work with others to rewire chains for social 
sustainability — for example, improving Bangladesh 
factory safety through our work with the Alliance, 
or fighting modern slavery in seafood through 
our work with the Seafood Task Force and the 
Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment. 
A message from our  
Chief Sustainability Officer 
6
