48 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology available on the Walmart Sustainability Hub.
49 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology available on the Walmart Sustainability Hub.
50 Publicly registered FIPs include FIPs and Pre-FIPs, both of which are registered with Fishsource.
51 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, U.K. and U.S., as reported by waste vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where 
real numbers were not available due to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on industry acceptable standards.
52 Meeting or exceeding Zero Waste International Alliance business recognition program requirements, which include adoption of ZWIA definition of zero waste and achievement of 90% or more diversion of all discarded resources 
from landfills, incinerators and the environment. We measure reductions in food waste through use of the following: Measurement metric = total weight of non-diverted food in pounds (i.e., landfill and controlled combustion 
without energy recovery) / total weight of all food sold in pounds. Zero waste goal and reporting scope includes waste materials and products generated in Walmart’s owned facilities and its operations (stores, clubs, warehouses, 
return centers, truck maintenance garages, etc.).
53 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019.
54 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019, plus value of FY2019 benefits.
55 Salaried associates — eligible as of hire date/full-time hourly associates — eligible following 12 months of service.
56 Salaried associates — eligible as of hire date/full-time hourly associates — eligible following 12 months of service.
57 Diversity & Inclusion numbers are calculated based upon total U.S. workforce, including associates in the U.S. regardless of whether assigned to a subsidiary that owns or operates an ecommerce business, platform and/or 
marketplace.
58 A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority, veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or a member of the lesbian, gay, bisexual or 
transgender (LGBT) community.
ENDNOTES
94
