Food 
Food safety
As the world’s largest grocer, we are committed to 
playing a leading role in upholding food safety laws 
and regulations applicable to our global businesses, 
and to providing access to safe, high-quality foods. 
We helped found the Global Food Safety Initiative,  
and we are guided by our Food Safety Policy. Our 
Global Food Safety Compliance team includes 
food safety professionals who are responsible for 
overseeing a comprehensive Food Safety program 
in every market where we operate. 
To reduce food-safety-related risk in our supply 
chain, we require all private-brand suppliers and 
select categories of national-brand suppliers to 
achieve certification to one of the Global Food 
Safety Initiative’s internationally recognized food 
safety standards, which often exceed applicable 
regulatory requirements. 
Since the initial rollout of this requirement, more 
than 4,990 food facilities that provide products 
to Walmart stores and Sam’s Clubs have been 
certified. Studies published in the peer-reviewed 
Journal of Food Protection have shown that Global 
Food Safety Initiative certification tends to help  
suppliers in strengthening their ability to produce 
safe foods and comply with regulations. 
We also strive to improve transparency and the 
traceability of the products we carry through 
technology such as blockchain. For example, 
Walmart China, working with IBM and Jinluo 
Meat Co., completed a proof-of-concept pilot 
that dramatically reduced the time needed to 
trace select pork products back to the farm using 
blockchain. And, in the wake of E. coli outbreaks in 
2018, Walmart U.S. asked our existing suppliers of 
leafy greens (e.g., romaine lettuce and spinach) to 
use blockchain technology to trace their products 
back to the farms where they originated. 
Blockchain technology has the potential to shine 
a light on all actors in the food system. This 
enhanced transparency can result in greater 
accountability, improved safety and more 
sustainable practices. 
Through regular independent, third-party food 
safety audits of our stores and clubs that prepare 
fresh food, we assess adherence to Walmart 
food safety standards, processes, conditions and 
expected behaviors. These risk-based audits help us 
receive independent assurances that our stores are 
operating in a safe and legal manner. 
In FY2019, we conducted 
more than 140,000 
independent food safety 
audits at our stores and 
clubs globally.
In October 2016, 
Walmart created the 
Beijing-based Walmart Food Safety Collaboration 
Center (WFSCC) to bring together local and 
international research into the root causes and 
prevention of foodborne illness. The WFSCC, a 
collaborative effort among industry, government 
and academia, seeks to identify solutions for 
improving food safety in China.  
For more information on our food-safety-related 
initiatives and work in China, please visit 
www.walmartfoodsafetychina.com. 
For more information on our Food Safety program, 
including our food- and sourcing-related policies, 
please visit our Food Safety and Policies websites.
>140,000
independent 
food safety audits 
conducted globally 
63
