We have also created a customized field-to-store 
network for highly perishable products, which is 
designed to reduce days in transit and increase 
freshness for customers. To support this network, we 
introduced specialized upstream nodes to consolidate 
products, which allow fresh produce to move faster 
through every step of the transportation process. 
While decreasing inventory and waste, our produce 
moves through our Speed Fresh Supply Chain up to 
1.8 days faster. 
Additionally, in several markets, we adjust our 
product specifications to accept size and other 
cosmetic variations that don’t affect the quality of 
fresh produce. For example, our Asda stores in the 
U.K. sell cosmetically imperfect, or “ugly,” fruits 
and vegetables under a variety of labels. In FY2019, 
Asda sold more than a million boxes of this produce, 
avoiding 1.5 million pounds of waste. 
In Canada, China, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S. we 
offer discounts on food that is close to its expiration 
date, including meat, bakery, dry goods and dairy. In 
FY2019, we sold more than 320 million units through 
these programs in the U.S., saving our customers 
money and helping prevent food waste. 
When food goes unpurchased, Walmart works to 
maximize its use by getting it to people and places 
that need it. In addition 
to donating food to food 
banks and other charities, 
Walmart and the Walmart 
Foundation have donated 
funds to purchase 
equipment to increase the 
capacity of the charitable 
meal system to transport 
and deliver fresh food. In FY2019, we donated  
640 million pounds of food in the U.S. alone. 
If food is no longer edible, we try to convert it to 
animal feed, compost or energy. Our Asda stores, for 
example, are recycling food into energy by taking 
inedible unsold food to anaerobic digestion plants, 
where it is broken down into gases that can be used 
as fuel and fertilizers. 
In 2018, we diverted more than 1.6 billion pounds of 
food waste from landfills globally. We also received 
 a B, the highest score among U.S. supermarkets 
assessed, in the Center for Biological Diversity’s 
1.6 
BILLION 
pounds of food 
waste diverted 
from landfills 
globally25
35
