To encourage customers to recycle, we have asked 
suppliers to put more consumer-friendly recycling 
information on packaging. In the U.S., Walmart 
encourages use of the Sustainable Packaging 
Coalition’s How2Recycle® label; in 2019 Walmart 
Canada announced a commitment to use this label  
on all private brand products by 2025. 
Beyond packaging, we are also working to offer access 
to low-cost, high-quality alternatives for single-use 
plastic consumable products and plastic bags. 
We participate in the plastic working group at  
the Consumer Goods Forum and we support  
The UK Plastic Pact; we are also signatories to the 
New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. 
To learn more about our initiatives to eliminate  
waste, including our Sustainable Packaging  
Position Statement and Playbook, see the  
Walmart Sustainability Hub, Walmart Canada  
and Walmart Mexico.
Philanthropy
To help reduce plastic waste in the U.S., the 
Walmart Foundation has made targeted 
investments to support materials innovation, 
recycling collection and/or sortation 
infrastructure and consumer education. 
For example, the Walmart Foundation has 
supported the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation’s Beyond 34 project, an initiative 
aimed at increasing the U.S. recycling rate.  
 
Learn more at Walmart.org. 
Food waste
We are inspired by the U.N. Sustainable Development 
Goal 12.3 to halve per capita global food waste at 
the retail and consumer level and reduce food losses 
along production and supply chains by 2030. Our 
end-to-end approach for addressing food waste 
includes pursuing best practices in our operations, 
building capacity in the broader food recovery system, 
working with suppliers upstream and empowering 
consumers downstream.
Food waste in our operations
We aim for Zero Waste24 in our operations in Canada, 
Japan, the U.K. and the U.S., which encompasses food 
waste. We are a signatory to the Consumer Goods 
Forum’s Food Waste Resolution and a member of the 
U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions, both of 
which seek to halve food waste. In FY2019,  
Walmart Canada committed to achieve zero food 
waste by 2025. 
The primary way we reduce food waste in our 
operations is by working to increase the sell-through 
rate. In the U.S., for example, we have strengthened 
our forecasting and ordering tools to improve 
inventory flow, adjusted store fixtures to increase 
turnover and customer appeal, made enhancements 
in our distribution centers, and provided our store 
associates with resources and education on how to 
better care for food and manage it at the end of  
shelf life. We are seeing results. In FY2019, we had  
90 million fewer wasted units in our fresh departments 
in the U.S. as compared with last year. 
34
