Risk-based social compliance audit assessments
We take a risk-based approach to auditing, which allocates more resources to facilities located in countries with greater potential risks; facilities in higher-risk countries are 
required to submit regular audits, while facilities in lower-risk countries are audited on a sample basis. Facilities submit an approved third-party audit to Walmart, which we 
assess against our standards. In FY2019, we assessed more than 14,700 audits.
Facilities for which we found general compliance.
Facilities that audits show to be generally compliant with our Standards but have failed to meet at least one important 
requirement. In these cases, we ask the facility to remediate noncompliances found in the audit report.
Facilities where we have found more significant violations. We will continue to source from facilities with orange 
ratings as they work to remediate the violations.
Facilities where serious infractions were found that may result in temporarily or permanently terminating the facility 
as a supplier to Walmart
Facilities participating in our small supplier program and therefore did not receive a color rating.
Walmart reviews each facility audit and assigns a 
color rating based on the third-party program’s 
ability to produce product for Walmart evaluation 
and Walmart’s own assessment of that evaluation. 
Green ratings represent facilities for which we 
found general compliance. Yellow ratings identify 
facilities that audits show to be generally compliant 
with our Standards but have failed to meet at least 
one important requirement. In these cases, we ask 
the facility to remediate noncompliances found in 
the audit report. Orange ratings identify facilities 
whose audits indicate more serious violations of the 
Standards, but from which Walmart will continue to 
allow sourcing while the violations are remediated.
Red ratings identify facilities for which Responsible 
Sourcing has discovered violations of a nature 
that may make it appropriate to temporarily or 
permanently terminate the facility’s ability to produce 
product for Walmart.
Walmart reviews and assesses each audit report. 
Of the more than 14,700 third-party audit reports 
Walmart reviewed and assessed in FY2019, 23.7% 
received green, 63.1% received yellow, 10.8% received 
orange and 0.3% received red. An additional 2.1% of 
audits were for facilities participating in our small 
supplier program and, therefore, did not receive a 
color rating.  
In addition, Walmart operates several grievance 
mechanisms to solicit the concerns of workers in the 
supply chain. These include:
• Global helpline: Walmart provides global and 
local phone numbers that anyone can use to 
ask questions and report concerns related to 
Walmart’s business, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
The helpline is equipped to handle most local 
languages spoken in each of the retail markets 
where we operate.
• Global email address: This email address is 
available for reporting concerns, asking questions, 
or simply seeking guidance for situations that  
may be unclear. All contacts are received by 
Walmart’s Global Ethics and Compliance team in 
Bentonville, Arkansas.
• WalmartEthics.com: This website is available in 
13 languages and accessible globally. It provides 
a platform where stakeholders can ask questions, 
read our Statement of Ethics, submit ethical 
concerns and follow up on previously  
reported concerns.
10.8%
63.1%
23.7%
0.3%
2.1%
57
