Market access for smallholders  
in emerging markets 
Walmart works to help develop small suppliers 
in countries around the globe, enabling them to 
establish their businesses as part of the regional 
retail supply chain. Beyond Walmart’s supply chain, 
the Walmart Foundation invests in programs to 
help enhance livelihoods for produce growers 
in Mexico, small-plot farmers in India and small 
enterprises in South Africa. For example, in India 
where smallholder farmers represent the backbone 
of the country’s economy, the Walmart Foundation, 
working beyond Walmart’s supply chain, made a 
commitment in 2018 to invest $25 million over the 
next five years to improve farmer livelihoods. At 
the same time, Walmart India has committed to 
source 25% of produce sold in its Cash & Carry 
stores from India’s smallholder farmers. 
When the Walmart Foundation seeks out market 
access programs to support, we focus our funding 
on programs that help address women’s inclusion 
and empowerment. We ask about the design of 
projects and disaggregating data to understand any 
disproportionate impacts on program participants.
Investing in American jobs
Our U.S. customers and communities are 
passionate about supporting American 
manufacturing. In 2013, we announced our goal  
of purchasing an additional $250 billion in products 
that will support American jobs through 2023. 
According to Boston Consulting Group, this 
initiative could create 1 million new U.S. jobs, 
including 250,000 manufacturing jobs directly, and 
750,000 support and service sector jobs indirectly. 
We have achieved 94% of what we had initially 
estimated for this point and we are making steady 
progress across categories.
To raise awareness of our initiative and encourage 
suppliers to identify new product opportunities, 
Walmart hosted the fifth annual Open Call for new 
U.S.-made products in June 2018. Entrepreneurs 
from 46 states participated in more than 
500 meetings where they had an opportunity to 
pitch their products for Walmart stores. 
We have also: 
• Published the Policy Roadmap to Renew U.S. 
Manufacturing, outlining what government, 
manufacturers and retailers can do to create 
manufacturing areas of opportunity. 
• Released a report on the future of work  
in the U.S. on a county-by-county basis.
• Established the Jobs in U.S. Manufacturing 
Portal for suppliers to access our knowledge 
base on the U.S. manufacturing industry. 
According to data from our suppliers, 
approximately two-thirds of what we spend to buy 
products for Walmart U.S. goes toward items that 
are made, sourced or grown in the U.S. 
Nearly 
$30 BILLION*
spent with women-owned businesses  
in the past 7 years
*Totals for merchandising and services combined
61
