Plastic waste
While plastic provides numerous benefits in areas 
such as food safety and packaging flexibility, society 
has been unable to collect and recycle plastic at the 
same rate as it is produced. According to the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation, in 2016, less than 14% of 
plastic packaging was collected for recycling globally, 
with the rest ending up in landfills, rivers and oceans. 
Plastic waste in our operations
Walmart’s aspiration is to achieve zero plastic waste. 
We are taking actions across our business to use 
less plastic, recycle more and support innovations 
to improve plastic waste reduction systems. For 
example, we aim to use reusable packing containers 
instead of disposable packaging whenever possible. 
When we do use disposable packaging, we try to 
recycle as much of it as possible. In 2018, we  
recycled 430 million pounds of plastic film and  
rigid plastics globally. 
Plastic waste in our value chain
Approximately 40% of non-fiber plastic produced is 
used in packaging, the majority of which is used once 
and discarded. We have asked our suppliers to reduce 
unnecessary plastic packaging, increase packaging 
recyclability and increase recycled content, and to 
help us educate customers on reducing, reusing and 
recycling plastic. 
As of February 2019, we have committed to work with 
our U.S. private brand suppliers to:
• Achieve 100% recyclable, reusable or industrially 
compostable packaging in all Walmart  
private-brand products by 2025
• Target at least 20% post-consumer recycled 
content in private-brand packaging by 2025
• Label 100% of food and consumable  
private-brand packaging with the How2Recycle® 
label by 2022
• Eliminate the non-recyclable packaging material 
PVC in general merchandise packaging by 2020
• Reduce private brand plastic packaging  
when possible 
We encourage our national brand suppliers to 
make similar packaging commitments through 
Project Gigaton; we engage them on sustainable 
packaging best practices to support the creation and 
achievement of such goals. 
WALMART GLOBAL  
WASTE DESTINATION MIX 
 
Recycling: 68%
Donation to people: 5%
Animal feed: 3%
Anaerobic digestion: 1%
Composting: 1%
Incineration with and without  
energy recovery: 1%
Landfill: 21%
33
