Disaster response & resiliency
Through Walmart’s Emergency Operations Center 
(EOC) and Walmart’s planning and operational 
practices, we identify, assess, triage and respond to 
natural disasters, including epidemiological issues, 
and security events that affect Walmart operations, 
associates and the communities we serve.
The EOC operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 
to identify emerging risks, help facilities and 
associates prepare for disasters, monitor the 
development of crises, and serve as a triage point 
for emergencies in our stores or offices around the 
world. The EOC activates cross-functional subject 
matter teams throughout our business  
to prepare for and respond to disasters quickly  
and effectively.
The EOC core team includes experts in emergency 
management who regularly train associates 
across the enterprise. We use data and predictive 
analytics to identify and assess weather and 
environmental risks. This data aids in disaster 
preparedness and helps maintain or quickly restore 
operations. In major disasters, we can deploy 
an array of internal resources, including mobile 
generators, fuel resources, trucks and associates 
who can help to manage our corporate response 
to the crises on the ground. Through the EOC’s 
efforts to coordinate with local, state and federal 
governmental agencies, as well as nonprofits and 
volunteer organizations around the world, Walmart 
is able to determine how it can help support local 
communities in the face of disaster.
Philanthropy
In the past two years, Walmart 
and the Walmart Foundation 
gave nearly $50 million in cash, water, 
food and other products to support 
victims of hurricanes, wildfires and 
tornadoes. Additionally, during the  
same time period, Walmart raised  
$44 million in donations from 
customers to support hurricane 
relief. We also fund the development 
of technologies that enhance situational 
awareness and enable coordination 
among first responders, such as RC View.  
 
Learn more about our Disaster Relief 
program at Walmart.org.
26
