Cases resulting from these grievance mechanisms, 
as well as from audits and internal referrals, can be 
referred to our Responsible Sourcing Investigations 
or other compliance teams within Walmart. In FY2019, 
our Responsible Sourcing team opened more than 
600 cases involving allegations of supply chain 
misconduct. Each case is reviewed and may include 
worker interviews, on-site visits and follow up with 
audit programs. Responsible Sourcing may also 
engage with the supplier directly, which typically 
includes a discussion regarding the allegations; a 
clarification of expectations; and the review, approval 
and follow up with the supplier on a corrective 
action plan. In FY2019, Walmart used this issue 
response process for more than 65 cases. Reports 
of misconduct ranged from issues such as lack of 
required posters to more serious violations that 
warranted in-depth scrutiny. 
We believe that staying engaged with suppliers 
through dialogue and corrective plans can have a 
more positive impact than simply abandoning the 
supplier relationship — and in FY2019, more than 
480 facilities remediated from orange to either 
yellow or green assessments. However, substantiated 
findings may result in consequences for suppliers, 
facilities or both — up to and including termination 
of business with Walmart and its subsidiaries. Since 
2012, we have stopped doing business with more than 
30 suppliers in response to serious violations of  
our Standards. 
Learn more about Supplier Standards at our 
Responsible Sourcing website.
Strengthening capacity of global 
audit systems
Many of the challenges we seek to address in our 
global supply chains are not unique to Walmart, 
and we are collaborating with our peers and 
key stakeholders to strengthen and standardize 
expectations for suppliers to drive transformation 
across supply chains. For instance, to help improve 
capacity of supply chain audits, Walmart and other 
stakeholders — including third-party audit firms and 
other companies who rely on social compliance  
audits, audit programs and non-governmental 
organizations (NGO) — established the Association 
of Professional Social Compliance Auditors (APSCA). 
The APSCA aims to increase the credibility and 
professionalism of auditors and audit programs 
across the industry. In 2018, the APSCA developed 
a Code of Professional Conduct and a Competency 
Framework for Auditors, and the group began piloting 
its certification process. As of January 31, 2019, more 
than 3,200 auditors have registered with the APSCA. 
Collaborative efforts to address 
systemic issues
For certain risks, supply chain monitoring and 
supplier engagement can only go so far. Long-term 
social sustainability in complex, global supply chains 
requires whole-system transformation and collective 
action of suppliers, NGOs, governments, retailers and 
others. Walmart has committed to work with others 
to address potential risks to the dignity of workers in 
a minimum of 10 retail supply chains by 2025; so far, 
we have focused on five supply chain initiatives: 
• Apparel in Bangladesh
• Produce in the U.S. and Mexico
• Shrimp in Thailand
• Tuna processed in Thailand
• Electronics sourced for the U.S. retail market 
supply chain 
To help prioritize key geographies and supply chains, 
we analyzed internal data, audit findings and other 
external resources such as the World Bank global 
indices and government and media reports. We also 
considered where Walmart could have the biggest 
impact and identified collaborators that could help 
effect change. 
In such whole-system, collaborative efforts, Walmart 
engages through business and philanthropic initiatives 
that include:
• Clarifying expectations with suppliers 
• Investing in research to understand prevalence of 
human rights violations and track progress toward 
improvement
• Engaging with governments to advocate for laws, 
regulations and enforcement
• Collaborating with key stakeholders and thought 
leaders in task forces and consortia
• Building capacity in critical parts of the 
system (e.g., responsible recruitment, worker 
communication tools and monitoring technology) 
To gain deeper insight into these chains and the 
day-to-day experiences of workers, our associates 
also conduct on-site visits; cross-functional teams 
from Walmart undertook several such visits in 2018.  
Such on-site visits not only improve our ability to 
collaborate on whole-system change initiatives, 
they also help us improve our merchandising and 
responsible sourcing practices.
Two human rights issues that we are particularly 
focused on through our responsible sourcing work 
and collaborative initiatives are forced labor and 
worker safety. 
58
