Why are we doing this? 
Why are we launching big efforts like Project 
GigatonTM? Why did we set ambitious goals such 
as creating zero waste and using 100% renewable 
energy? Why, as a retailer, have a position on 
human rights? Why issue an Environmental,  
Social & Governance Report every year to  
track progress? 
Well, as with many things at Walmart, the WHY of it 
starts with our founder, Sam Walton. 
Twenty-seven years ago, President George H.W. 
Bush traveled to Bentonville to present Sam 
with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. It was a 
pinnacle moment for Walmart, and our founder 
shared a few powerful and timeless thoughts. 
He provided a forward-looking purpose for our 
company that drives us today: 
“If we can, why, we’ll lower the cost of living for 
everyone — not just in America, but we’ll give the 
world an opportunity to see what it’s like to save 
and have a better lifestyle and a better life for all.” 
Sam said “and.” Our purpose is to help give people 
all over the world the opportunity to save “… AND 
have a better lifestyle AND a better life for all.” 
Some have described Sam as a merchant with a 
servant’s heart. During his life, he gave back to 
the communities where we had stores and, as the 
scale of the company has grown, our desire to 
strengthen communities and make a difference in 
the world continues on. 
Sam made those comments in 1992. In 2005, our 
President and CEO Lee Scott painted a vision 
of “21st Century Leadership” and challenged us to 
expand our thinking and impact. He said, “For us 
there is no distinction between being a responsible 
citizen and a successful business. They are one and 
the same for Walmart.” 
What Sam and Lee said applies now more than ever. 
We believe it’s important to run our business in a 
way that generates lasting value for our customers, 
our associates, our shareholders and for society 
more broadly. 
To many of us today, trust seems in short supply. 
Institutions, including business, especially big 
business, are being questioned. We see it in the 
headlines. We think that people want to trust again 
but, of course, trust has to be earned. People want 
to see companies doing good in the world, and 
people want to work for companies they believe 
in. Business should serve more than just one 
stakeholder group. It’s not enough to just serve 
shareholders or just serve customers; rather, the 
opportunity for businesses and their leadership is to 
add value for all stakeholders. We’ve felt that way 
for a long time and we’ve been taking action, but 
we’re challenging ourselves to make even better  
choices and do more. 
We’re investing in our associates through wages 
along with better educational opportunities, 
benefits and training. For example, since the first 
U.S. Walmart Academy opened in 2016, more than 
A message from our  
Chief Executive Officer
4
