Our U.S. Product Quality and Compliance Manual 
contains full details on this process. More 
information on how we manage product safety, 
including our Product Safety Policy, can be found 
on our Product Safety website. 
Sustainable chemistry
Launched in 2013, our Sustainable Chemistry 
Initiative sets ambitious goals for product 
formulation and transparency, covering 
approximately 125,000 personal care, beauty, 
baby, pet and household cleaning products sold by 
Walmart and Sam’s Club stores in the U.S. 
Our current Sustainable Chemistry Commitment 
outlines how we are working to incorporate the 
12 Principles of Green Chemistry. The commitment 
asks suppliers to accelerate product reformulation, 
improve ingredient transparency and certify 
products using credible accreditations such as 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Safer 
Choice program. 
Last year, we became the first U.S. retailer to 
announce a time-bound chemical footprint 
reduction goal and set a commitment to report 
annually to the Chemical Footprint Project. Our 
consumables chemical footprint is based on 
Walmart’s Priority Chemical list and includes 
chemicals such as formaldehyde and phthalates. 
By 2022, we aim to reduce the chemical footprint 
in personal care, beauty, baby, pet and household 
cleaning categories in U.S. stores by 10%. Our 
baseline for this goal is our calendar year 2017 
footprint of approximately 190 million pounds for 
Walmart U.S. and approximately 30 million pounds 
for Sam’s Club. We made this baseline public  
in 2018.
In February 2019, we expanded our sustainable 
chemistry efforts and encouraged suppliers to 
lead on sustainable chemistry in apparel, footwear 
and soft home textile products and leverage 
third-party certifications that assess and recognize 
leadership in line 
with the principles 
of sustainable 
chemistry. In 
2018, we also 
announced that we 
will phase out paint 
removal products 
with the chemicals methylene chloride and 
N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) from our stores in 
the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Central America and 
www.walmart.com.
Health & wellness
In the U.S., our presence in thousands of 
communities gives us a unique opportunity to 
provide access to affordable health care to  
millions of people. According to a recent survey 
of U.S. customers conducted by our insights team, 
cost is the top barrier to healthcare for 43% of 
Walmart shoppers, followed by convenience (27%) 
and access (22%). 
Additionally, 40%  
of those surveyed 
have delayed 
medical care.
Since 2017, we have 
introduced 4,500 
in-store health 
kiosks that have been used by more than 24 million 
customers — an average of 16 times per day. 
Through our Wellness events, which take place four 
3.3  
MILLION 
free health screenings 
provided
We are helping 
customers find more 
sustainable products 
through Walmart’s  
Clean Living Shop. 
65
