Grievance 
Walmart employs several grievance mechanisms 
to solicit, assess and address the concerns of 
associates, customers, workers in the supply chain, 
people in communities where we operate and 
other stakeholders: anonymous hotlines; email and 
websites; direct engagement in small groups and 
surveys; a process we call “Open Door”; sentiment 
and content analysis of public social media postings; 
and assessment of facility audits.
We triage inquiries and allegations received through 
these channels, routing them to the appropriate 
teams for further consideration or action. In some 
cases, we open a formal investigation, using internal 
investigators or a third party, depending on the 
nature of the allegation. We work to see that 
concerns are appropriately addressed in a  
timely manner. 
We also monitor the number and types of inquiries 
and allegations received through these and  
other channels. This information helps us to 
understand where we may need to strengthen 
policies or procedures. 
We encourage stakeholders to raise concerns and to 
report activities they suspect may contravene the 
values and positions we express in our policies and 
statements. We will not retaliate against any party for 
raising concerns in good faith. 
For additional information about the mechanisms 
we have in place to hear concerns, please visit the 
following sections of this report:
• Associate voice
• Sourcing responsibly
• Ethics & compliance
We are also mindful that human rights abuses can 
be the result of systemic issues, increasing the 
complexity of issue resolution. As an example, in 
2013, Walmart was a founding member of the Alliance 
for Bangladesh Worker Safety, which provided 
extensive fire safety training; gave access to a 24-
hour, confidential helpline to report safety and other 
job-related concerns; and supported extensive 
remediation of factory safety issues. According  
to the Alliance’s fifth annual report, 90% of  
high-priority remediation items were complete across 
all factories affiliated with the Alliance and nearly 
1.6 million workers have been trained in fire safety. 
More than 1.5 million workers now have access to the 
24-hour confidential helpline. While the Alliance’s 
commitment ended in 2018, Walmart remains 
dedicated to worker safety in Bangladesh.
Walmart’s next steps
In this next year, we expect to: 
• Continue to broadly communicate our 
Human Rights Statement with our associates 
and suppliers as well as customers and the 
communities in which we operate so that they 
may be familiar with the concepts and values 
within it.
• Continue to engage human rights thought leaders 
and stakeholders to help us advance our initiatives 
and improve our effectiveness.
• Continue to develop our reporting, as we learn 
more about what our associates and stakeholders 
would like to know. 
44
