Standards for suppliers
We communicate our fundamental expectations 
to suppliers on social conditions, worker safety 
and integrity in the workplace through our 
Standards for Suppliers. Suppliers must agree to  
the Standards as part of their Supplier Agreement 
with Walmart. The Standards apply to anyone that 
supplies product to Walmart for resale, as well as 
any agents they use. Among other obligations, the 
Standards require our suppliers, and those who  
supply to them, to:
• Comply with the law
• Be transparent in their production for Walmart
• Not use involuntary or underage labor
• Maintain a fair process for making employment 
decisions
• Comply with all applicable laws and agreements 
regarding compensation and working hours
• Respect the principles of freedom of association 
and the right to collective bargaining
• Provide a safe work environment 
We provide tools and resources for suppliers through 
the Responsible Sourcing Academy, which includes 
training, best practices, and educational materials 
developed by third parties and Walmart. More than 
4,300 supplier representatives have registered in the 
Responsible Sourcing Academy. 
Monitoring
Through our risk-based monitoring program, we use 
third-party audits to evaluate supply chain practices 
against our Standards. After assessing the standards, 
protocols, governance and integrity of each program, 
the Responsible Sourcing team approved nine third-
party audit programs. In addition, we work with the 
audit programs to make enhancements and share best 
practices for the benefit of the broader supply chain. 
To determine where regular audits will be required, 
we assign countries a classification of their potential 
social compliance risk level based on the World Bank 
governance indicators. Facilities in countries that fall 
into the highest level of risk — which are identified as 
Category 2 and Category 3 countries — are subject to 
regular audits. Facilities in Category 1 countries, such 
as the U.S., are subject to audits on a sample basis. 
56
