Project Gigaton participant Unilever committed 
to supporting work in Sabah, Malaysia as part of 
its strategy to achieve a deforestation-free supply 
chain and avoid emissions. Unilever will help certify 
60,000 hectares to the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil (RSPO) standards in Sabah as part of a 
program led by Forever Sabah, WWF Malaysia and 
the Palm Oil & NGO (PONGO) Alliance. 
We also support certifications to reduce forest 
loss and improve sustainability of commodities 
such as palm oil, pulp and paper, as well as 
Brazilian beef and soy. In 2015, based upon supplier 
reported data, 100% of our private-brand palm 
oil was sourced through a combination of RSPO 
certification criteria, including Mass Balance, 
Segregated, Identity Preserved and Credits. In 
2017, we strengthened our efforts and set a more 
ambitious goal to source our private-brand palm 
oil in accordance with the principles and criteria 
of RSPO, using only Mass Balance or Segregated 
supply chain systems, or equivalent standards, by 
the end of 2020.
6. Product use & design 
Designers, manufacturers and brands have an 
opportunity to help customers lower the GHG 
emissions associated with their use of a product 
(and often saving customers money at the same 
time). In Project Gigaton, we ask suppliers to 
commit, in particular, to improving the in-use 
energy efficiency of their products. 
Walmart has collaborated with suppliers on product 
innovations that have helped consumers reduce 
emissions — such as working with suppliers to 
popularize LED lightbulbs. More recently, Project 
Gigaton participant Procter & Gamble announced 
a commitment to cut 50 million metric tons of 
emissions from its operations and value chain 
by 2030. As part of that commitment, the Tide 
#QuickColdPledge encourages customers to 
switch to quick and cold laundry cycles. 
For more on how suppliers are demonstrating 
progress through Project Gigaton, visit our 
Supplier Recognition page.
Climate change adaptation
With operations and a value chain that span the 
globe, we are incorporating resiliency planning and 
initiatives into parts of our business to help address 
the effects of climate change.
Resilient sourcing
In some cases where the availability or quality of 
commodities is susceptible to climate variables 
such as drought, storms and temperature,  
we are working with our buyers, distribution  
teams and suppliers on resiliency plans. For 
example, in our food business, we are working 
with produce suppliers on strategies such as using 
greenhouses to grow tomatoes and leafy greens, 
pioneering techniques to better manage growing 
conditions, improving yields and reducing the need 
for fertilizers. 
25
