Project Gigaton™
Beyond our direct operations, we aim to galvanize 
transformative action through Project Gigaton, 
a global effort that invites suppliers to join us in 
a commitment to avoid 1 billion metric tons of 
emissions in our collective value chains by 2030. 
Launched in 2017, Project Gigaton engages 
suppliers in setting targets and pursuing initiatives 
to avoid emissions in any of six areas where there 
are opportunities to do so: energy use, sustainable 
agriculture, waste, deforestation, packaging and 
product use. 
We worked with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) 
on the overall concept and design, as well as the 
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), Conservation 
International (CI), The Nature Conservancy 
(TNC), the Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC) 
and CDP to connect suppliers to measurement 
methodologies, guidance and practical tools to 
help them reduce emissions. The program builds 
upon lessons learned from initiatives Walmart has 
undertaken with suppliers and NGOs in the past, 
such as our 20 million metric ton initiative.
"Project Gigaton is the biggest and best 
example of a company encouraging 
its suppliers to be part of the solution 
to climate change. Through Walmart’s 
scale, collaboration and innovation, 
it continues to lead the way on 
actions that create both business and 
environmental value."
—FRED KRUPP | PRESIDENT, EDF 
Walmart established an external review process 
to support continual improvement of the 
methodologies to account for avoided emissions 
from Project Gigaton. A steering committee 
with subcommittees of technical experts from 
CDP, EDF, SPC, WWF and others lead the review 
process. To learn more about the platform, tools, 
resources and measurement methodology visit 
Project Gigaton on the Walmart Sustainability Hub. 
We are currently on track to achieve our gigaton 
goal. To date, more than 1,000 suppliers have 
formally signed on to the project. In 2018 alone, 
382 suppliers reported avoiding 58,904,20617 MT  
of emissions, totaling 93,656,63918 MT toward the  
1 gigaton target in the first two years of the 
program. We encourage suppliers to set specific, 
measurable, actionable, relevant and time-bound 
(“SMART”) goals, because we believe they lead 
to substantially better results over time; to date, 
47% of Project Gigaton suppliers have set  
such goals. 
In the coming year, we plan to focus on attracting 
additional suppliers and broadening the scope 
of initiatives across programmatic areas. While 
the program is on track, nearly 80% of reported 
avoided emissions were related to energy (under 
the Energy or Product Use action areas). Fewer 
have made commitments related to Deforestation 
or Sustainable Agriculture, where success requires 
influencing a disparate set of actors far upstream in 
the supply chain, addressing interdependencies and 
barriers in complex social and economic systems, 
and gaining alignment with others regarding 
methodologies for measurement and action.  
We are working with suppliers and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) to support the 
development of tools to enable some improvement 
in these areas. 
23
