Mobility
According to a Pew Research Center survey 
conducted in association with the Markle 
Foundation, a majority of U.S. workers say that 
new skills and training are essential to career 
success. Walmart aims to help workers gain the 
skills they need to succeed within our company and 
beyond. For example, in Walmart U.S., we provide 
on-the-job training and access to affordable, 
relevant education programs including high school 
completion, college preparation and subsidized 
four-year college degrees (with a head start for 
those who receive college credit for Walmart 
experience). The rest of 
this section describes 
our training and 
education initiatives.
These opportunities to 
grow knowledge and 
skills have enabled our 
associates to advance. We promoted more than 
215,000 people to jobs of greater responsibility 
and higher pay in Walmart U.S. More than 75% of 
our Walmart U.S. store operations management 
team members started as hourly employees, 
and Walmart store managers earn an average of 
$175,000/year in the U.S.
Training programs 
Walmart U.S. offers all associates the opportunity 
to gain critical skills for job advancement, including 
language training and professional development. 
We also offer two structured training programs for 
associates at Walmart U.S. stores: Pathways and 
The Walmart Academy. 
Building foundational skills through Pathways 
Our Pathways training program helps associates 
gain vital retail job skills, including customer 
service, merchandising, teamwork and 
communications. The program leverages self-paced, 
computer-based learning and mentoring from 
supervisors who provide feedback on associates’ 
job performance and highlight potential career 
opportunities. More than 850,000 associates  
have completed the Pathways program since  
its inception. 
Building advanced skills through Walmart Academy 
Walmart Academy offers hands-on, immersive 
learning, combining technology, classroom training 
and ongoing coaching on the sales floor. Using 
cutting-edge handheld devices and virtual reality, 
the program prepares associates for jobs as 
frontline hourly supervisors, department managers 
and assistant managers. Associates are paid for the 
time spent in training. 
In the last three years, Walmart has opened nearly 
200 Academies in the U.S., most within an hour’s 
drive of a Walmart store, and each Academy serves 
approximately 25 nearby stores. In FY2019 alone, 
we trained about 450,000 associates through 
Walmart Academy. 
Education opportunities
Walmart offers education benefits for General 
Educational Development (GED) certification, 
high school completion and college credit through 
an innovative approach to higher education that 
focuses on meeting the distinct needs of the adult 
working learner. 
More than 
215,000
promotions
in Walmart  
U.S. stores
49
