800,000 associates have gone through training. And 
we expanded our parental-leave and adoption policies 
and raised starting wages again. As of last year, a full-
time hourly associate in the U.S. who gives birth to a 
child is eligible for up to 16 weeks of paid time away.
We’re launching new efforts to be more sustainable. 
Earlier this year, we announced a plan to reduce 
plastic waste in the packaging for our private brands. 
By 2025, we aim to use 100% recyclable, reusable, or 
industrially compostable packaging for our private 
brands in the U.S. 
We’re continuing our fight against hunger. Four years 
ago, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation committed 
to providing 4 billion meals through funding and food 
donations by 2020. We are ahead of schedule. 
And we’re working to source responsibly and  
improve supply chain conditions. For example, 
we’re proud to be a founding member in 2013 of 
the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, which 
concluded its commitment last year. Over the past 
five years, 90% of high-priority remediation items 
were complete across all factories affiliated with the 
Alliance and almost 1.6 million workers have been 
trained in fire safety. We continue to collaborate with 
stakeholders to improve the lives of workers in the 
global supply chain. 
In the end, we all must answer one simple question: 
What valuable purpose did we serve? Either as 
an individual or as a company, which is simply a 
collection of individuals, what good did we do for  
the world? 
Walmart is nearing the end of its sixth decade. We’ve 
been around a while, and with longevity comes a 
perspective and vision beyond next week. We’re in 
it for the long haul. And we understand that for a 
business to last, it must have a fundamental reason 
for being, which is found in the value it creates for all— 
customers, associates, communities, shareholders, 
suppliers, future generations … and the planet. 
Remember, Sam said “and.” This is the And.
Doug McMillon 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Walmart Inc. 
5
