15 Annual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions and carbon intensities correspond to the results we disclose in response to the annual CDP climate change questionnaire and can be downloaded from the CDP website. The methodology is 
in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, meaning we use the latest available emissions factors for energy grids at the time of annual reporting to CDP. As a result, emissions reported 
to CDP in any given year are subject to the grid factors available in the year of reporting. Lucideon CICS independently verified Walmart’s reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, pursuant to ISO 14064-3 (the international 
standard for verification of greenhouse gas inventories). For more details, please refer to Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Methodology attached to our CDP disclosures.
16 Carbon intensity (Scopes 1 and 2 per revenue) calculation is based on emissions reported to CDP for the calendar year (Jan 1-Dec 31) and normalized by total annual revenues as measured by Walmart’s fiscal year (Feb 1-Jan 31). 
The intensities shown in this chart correspond with the Scopes 1 and 2 emissions as reported in our annual CDP response and have not been adjusted for most recent grid factor updates.
17 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology available on the Walmart Sustainability Hub.
18 We previously reported year one results as “more than 20 million metric tons”; the exact figure was 21,518,699 metric tons, plus 13,233,733 of “roll-forward” emissions which were not publicly reported and are retroactively being 
added to the year one total in line with the clarified temporal allocation procedures described in the Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology.
19 Based upon total average Index scores achieved by participating suppliers in categories where the Index is available in calendar year 2018 as compared with 2016.
20 Based upon total average Index scores achieved by participating suppliers in categories where the Index is available in calendar year 2018 as compared with 2016.
21 Zero waste is based on the requirements and definition from the Zero Waste International Alliance (ZWIA) business recognition program. The ZWIA definition of zero waste is achieving 90% or more diversion of all discarded 
resources from landfills, incinerators and the environment. zero waste goal and reporting scope includes waste materials and products generated in Walmart’s owned facilities and its operations (stores, clubs, warehouses, return 
centers, truck maintenance garages, etc.).
22 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, U.K. and U.S., as reported by waste vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where 
real numbers were not available due to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on industry acceptable standards.
23 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, U.K. and U.S., as reported by waste vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where 
real numbers were not available due to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on industry acceptable standards.
24 Meeting or exceeding Zero Waste International Alliance business recognition program requirements, which include adoption of the ZWIA definition of zero waste and achievement of 90% or more diversion of all discarded 
resources from landfills, incinerators and the environment. We measure reductions in food waste through use of the following: Measurement metric = total weight of non-diverted food in pounds (i.e., landfill and controlled 
combustion without energy recovery) / total weight of all food sold in pounds. Zero waste goal and reporting scope includes waste materials and products generated in Walmart’s owned facilities and its operations (stores, clubs, 
warehouses, return centers, truck maintenance garages, etc.).
25 Based on review of material handling and waste diversion processes in Argentina, Canada, Central America, Chile, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, U.K. and U.S., as reported by waste vendors, food banks and stores. In cases where 
real numbers were not available due to industry challenges, they have been estimated based on industry acceptable standards.
26 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019.
27 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019, plus value of FY2019 benefits.  
28 Diversity & inclusion numbers are calculated based upon total U.S. workforce, including associates in the U.S. regardless of whether assigned to a subsidiary that owns or operates an ecommerce business, platform and/or 
marketplace.
29 Diversity & inclusion numbers are calculated based upon total U.S. workforce, including associates in the U.S. regardless of whether assigned to a subsidiary that owns or operates an ecommerce business, platform and/or 
marketplace.
30 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019.
ENDNOTES
92
