Our Human Rights Statement confirms our 
respect for human rights and articulates how our 
four values inform our approach to human rights 
throughout our corporate activities, with a focus 
on our associates, customers, supply chain and the 
communities in which we operate. 
The statement was approved by the company’s 
Board of Directors in 2018. We have shared it with 
associates via team meetings, presentations, social 
media and other outreach. After publication of this 
report, we expect to expand our communication 
efforts with our associates and suppliers. 
Human rights: governance  
and implementation
In 2018, we launched a cross-functional Human 
Rights Steering Committee, comprised of Walmart 
leaders from Global Responsibility; Human 
Resources; Labor Relations; Responsible Sourcing; 
Culture, Diversity & Inclusion; Government 
Affairs; Communications; and Legal. This group 
oversees and guides our human rights approach 
at an enterprise level, which includes identifying 
our priority issues across the enterprise. In 
addition, this group provides a cross-functional 
perspective on the company’s approach to ongoing 
implementation of our Human Rights Statement, 
such as through policies and procedures, and offers 
guidance and counsel to relevant stakeholders as 
part of that process. 
The Steering Committee is supported by a Human 
Rights Working Group, which meets regularly and 
consists of members from each department as 
noted above. Last year, the Steering Committee 
and Working Group focused on:
• Developing our Human Rights Statement
• Mapping the various policies and procedures 
we have in place to help mitigate potential 
human rights issues 
• Consulting a variety of human rights subject 
matter experts for their insights
• Identifying our salient human rights issues 
We have identified several steps to continue 
advancing our work on human rights at Walmart, 
including:
• Assess potential adverse human rights impacts 
and the relevant processes in place
• Integrate relevant findings into policies and 
procedures 
• Track progress as part of Walmart’s efforts to 
continuously improve 
• Communicate with relevant internal and 
external stakeholders for insight on our 
progress and priorities
• Adjust our human rights priorities as needed
External stakeholders 
We value and routinely engage external 
stakeholders for their perspectives on  
human rights. 
For example, as we developed our Human Rights 
Statement, we spoke with subject matter experts 
from BSR, Interfaith Center on Corporate 
Responsibility, Institute for Human Rights and 
Business, New York University Stern Center for 
Business & Human Rights and Shift. We also 
engaged others through dialogue (e.g., Issara 
Institute and International Justice Mission through 
efforts combating forced labor) and forums (e.g., 
U.N. Business and Human Rights Conference, 
Concordia, and Consumer Goods Forum). 
42
