In June 2018, Walmart teamed up with Guild 
Education to offer associates the opportunity to earn 
their high school diploma at no cost to them and a 
college degree for $1 per day. That means Walmart 
will subsidize the cost of higher education, beyond 
financial aid and an associate contribution equivalent 
to $1 per day. Available to all U.S. Walmart and Sam’s 
Club associates, the program offers access to both 
associate’s and bachelor’s degrees from three 
university partners, chosen based on their success 
with adult working learners. Associates can earn 
their associate’s degree in an area of their choice 
and a bachelor’s degree in business management and 
supply chain management. Associates have access 
to a counselor to help them navigate the application 
process and stick with the program. More than 
1,500 students began classes in Fall 2018 across three 
university partners. 
Employees have taken notice of these opportunities, 
according to associate engagement surveys that 
Walmart conducts at least annually. In our most 
recent FY2019 U.S. associate engagement results, 
81% of associates agreed with the statement, “I have 
the training necessary to perform my job well.” This 
reflects our increased investment in employee 
training. We are seeing additional benefits from our 
investments, as shown by the fact that the majority of 
our associates also agreed with the statement, “I see 
a clear path for my career growth at Walmart.” Finally, 
the survey also confirms that nearly 75% of our 
associates would refer friends or family to Walmart 
for employment. 
Associate voice
At Walmart, we aim to create a collaborative 
environment where associates are free to respectfully 
express their opinions and feel that their concerns 
are heard. We want associates to share their ideas for 
making our business better and relay, in confidence 
when appropriate, any workplace concerns. To that 
end, we gather and respond to associates’ feedback in 
a variety of ways, including, for example, in the U.S.: 
• Personal, one-on-one interactions
• Team meetings 
• Cascaded leadership communications
• Company intranet
• Facebook Workplace and other social  
media channels 
• Traditional digital communications, such as email 
Senior operations executives also conduct formal 
listening tours twice a year with associates across the 
U.S. Additional annual company gatherings include 
the Year Beginning Meeting, Holiday Meeting and 
Shareholders’ Associate Week. Our U.S. CEO also 
holds quarterly town hall meetings with associates 
and weekly operations feedback calls with store 
managers. During these sessions, any action items 
are assigned to field and home office associates, 
including officers, who are responsible for addressing 
each one. 
These engagement efforts have led to meaningful 
improvements in company policies. Through various 
lines of communication, our U.S. associates asked 
Walmart to consider changes such as expanding our 
parental leave, bonuses for work attendance and a 
PTO-based time-off system so they would not incur 
penalties for sick leave. Walmart U.S. responded by 
implementing these practices.
Walmart’s Open Door process is another resource 
that allows any associate — from entry level to the 
C-suite — to share ideas and raise an issue in good 
faith at any time without fear of reprisal. 
Additional information on our Open Door policy, 
including our stance against retaliation for concerns 
raised in good faith, as well as guidance for our 
associates on when and how to use these resources, 
can be found in our Statement of Ethics.
Confidential resources 
In addition to the communication avenues described 
above, employees have access to a variety of 
confidential resources.
To ask a question or report an ethics violation, 
employees can contact Walmart Global Ethics 
at www.WalmartEthics.com, via email at 
ethics@walmart.com or 1-800-WM-ETHIC in the U.S., 
Puerto Rico and Canada. Our Statement of Ethics 
outlines resources available globally. Walmart strictly 
forbids retaliation against any associate who reports 
a concern in good faith. Reports can be made 
anonymously and will be treated as confidential.
Learn more about how we communicate with 
associates in the Stakeholder engagement section.
50
