•	 We host a variety of live and online events, 
communicate at trade events and keep in close 
communication with suppliers via timely updates.
•	  We encourage suppliers to report through the 
Sustainability Index, a science-based, third-party 
tool developed by The Sustainability Consortium 
in collaboration with universities, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and suppliers.
For more information on how we 
interact with our suppliers, please see the 
Responsible supply chains, Project Gigaton and the 
Sustainable chemistry sections of this report. 
Communities 
At Walmart, we work hard to support the 
communities where we operate and where our 
associates and customers live. See the Communities 
section of this report for more information.
Shareholders 
We engage with shareholders through:
• Formal communications: Quarterly earnings 
materials, Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC) filings, investor conferences, investment 
community meetings, annual live earnings call 
with the investment community, our annual 
report to shareholders, our annual proxy 
statement and other information made available 
via our corporate website 
• Shareholder outreach programs: Shareholder 
outreach is conducted during the year to  
discuss corporate governance, executive 
compensation and other matters related to 
Walmart’s enterprise strategy
• Walmart resources: Our website and hotline 
During these engagements, we provide updates 
on our corporate strategy, recent operational 
and financial results, competitive landscape, 
Board composition and governance, executive 
compensation and ESG initiatives. We hear diverse 
perspectives from our investors on Board governance, 
and we provide this shareholder feedback to our 
Nominating and Governance Committee.
Governments 
The guiding principle for Walmart’s government 
engagement is to promote public policy that fulfills 
the interests of our customers and the public as well 
as our business. We believe that sound public policy is 
the result of good-faith government and stakeholder 
actions that promote the intersection of those 
interests. Whether the issue involves federal or state 
taxation, trade, technology or policies related to the 
workforce of the future, we advocate with a view 
toward the long-term interests of our associates, our 
customers and the communities in which we work and 
live. We are committed to providing substantive and 
technical input and advice to legislative bodies and 
executive agencies across all issues where we have 
expertise and make it a practice to do so in ways that 
build relationships of trust. 
NGOs, advisory councils and grantees
Many problems facing the world today, from 
deforestation to human trafficking, are beyond the 
scope of any single organization to resolve. Because 
we aim to create lasting impact and system-wide 
change, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation 
collaborate with leading third parties to help solve 
complex problems.
We have direct dialogue with many institutions — 
both our critics and advocates — to understand 
critical ESG issues and the role Walmart can play to 
help address them. We have created and engaged 
with several advisory councils to offer critical 
input on Walmart’s business and ESG practices and 
initiatives. These include, among others, the Living 
Green Working Group, comprised of representatives 
of environmental NGOs, and the Workforce 
Advisory Council, which is made up of experts in 
workforce development. Working with third-party 
advisory councils enables us to benefit from an array 
of expertise and opinions and helps us shape our 
business initiatives.
We also seek to promote ecosystems and networks 
that allow grantees to multiply their impact by 
learning from and supporting one another. Learn 
more about our philanthropy and the Walmart 
Foundation at Walmart.org.
ESG research analysts 
We have ongoing conversations with ESG analysts and 
researchers. We interact with ESG analysts holding 
a variety of viewpoints on our company, and these 
diverse perspectives inform our initiatives and help 
make us more effective.  
In these conversations, we discuss Walmart’s strategy, 
governance practices, compliance programs and 
other ESG-related matters.  
73
