Our ESG priorities are grounded in our long-term 
business strategy and account for macro-economic, 
social and environmental trends. These priorities 
are where we see the most opportunity for  
shared value. 
Stakeholders provide valuable insight into 
our priorities. In 2014, we formally engaged 
stakeholders through our materiality 
review process. The results informed our 
2025 commitments, where we committed to 
progress in topics such as associate opportunity, 
social challenges in supply chains, environmental 
sustainability, human rights and community 
resiliency. 
Materiality, as used in the context of this report 
and our materiality review process, is different 
than the definition used in the context of filings 
with the SEC. Issues deemed material for purposes 
of this report, and for purposes of determining our 
ESG strategies, may not be considered material for 
SEC reporting purposes.  
We conduct regular updates through ongoing 
stakeholder engagement and dialogue. We address 
numerous ESG issues through our business, in 
partnership with others and through philanthropy, 
and we provide information on those throughout 
this report. Three issues that rise to the top of our 
priority list include: (1) economic opportunity for 
Walmart associates; (2) the safety and livelihoods 
of workers in supply chains; and (3) climate change.
Economic opportunity
Workforce development is one of the biggest 
issues facing economies around the world, 
especially as technology accelerates the pace of 
change for the jobs of today and tomorrow. 
Because the retail industry provides a point of 
entry into the job market for millions of workers, 
it has the potential to act as a springboard 
for economic mobility if workers can gain the 
experience and skills required to advance. 
Our workforce development approach focuses 
on access, stability and mobility. For example, 
Walmart U.S. provides an entry point into work for 
thousands of associates; competitive wages and 
strong benefits (from healthcare to retirement 
savings); and access to affordable education 
opportunities relevant for advancement in retail 
jobs. With the emergence of automation and 
artificial intelligence, our training and development 
programs become even more relevant for 
workforce success, as they help equip associates 
with critical 21st century skills. 
As described in more detail later in this report, 
our efforts are underpinned by a commitment 
to fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion 
throughout our company. By investing in a more 
diverse and dynamic workforce, we hope to keep 
pace with evolving customer demands, while also 
acting as a force for economic inclusion. 
Learn more in the Retail opportunity section.
Defining our ESG priorities, goals & targets
12
