According to the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC), human-caused 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the leading 
contributor to rising global temperatures and 
other signs of climate change. To avoid the worst 
effects of climate change, the Paris Agreement 
calls for collective action across society to limit 
global temperature increases to between 1.5 and 
2 degrees Celsius. 
At Walmart, we are focused on reducing emissions 
in our operations, engaging suppliers to reduce 
emissions in supply chains, strengthening the 
resilience of our business and using our voice to 
advocate for collective action.
Climate change impact  
scenario analysis
To better understand the nature of climate change 
and potential implications for the retail sector, we 
conducted a climate scenario analysis, working with 
an independent third-party consultant; we aimed 
to align with the scenario guidance set forth by  
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). 
The analysis considered two scenarios for global 
warming: 2° C (the upper end of the range 
targeted by the Paris Agreement) and 4° C 
(often called “business as usual”). Each scenario 
looked out to the years 2030 and 2050, making 
assumptions about four climate variables: 
temperature, drought/water stress, extreme 
weather events and sea level. The analysis modeled 
potential effects of these variables on aspects of 
retail business operations such as store heating and 
cooling requirements; crop yields (e.g., bananas, 
corn, lettuce, tomatoes, wheat, cotton); and storm 
damage to stores and distribution centers.  
The analysis made many simplifying assumptions. 
For example, each variable was considered 
in isolation. The analysis did not consider 
second- or third-order effects. It also did not 
consider potentially offsetting impacts of new 
technologies, mitigating actions or new business 
opportunities. While the limitations of the 
analysis mean that it can’t be used to predict 
net long-term impact on financials or business 
operations, it nevertheless helped to validate 
our current business strategies and initiatives for 
energy demand, commodity sourcing, value chain 
innovation, water management and resiliency. 
We discussed the analysis with teams across our 
business and the Nominating and Governance 
Committee of the Walmart Board. For more 
information on this analysis, please see our 
2018 CDP climate change disclosure.
Climate change mitigation 
We believe mitigating the effects of climate 
change will require collective action to reduce 
GHG emissions. Because most emissions in the 
retail sector lie in product supply chains rather 
than in stores and distribution centers, we have 
committed to pursue substantial emissions 
reduction not only in our own operations but also 
across product supply chains, by catalyzing and 
supporting initiatives among suppliers, NGOs, 
customers and others at scale. 
21
