31 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019, plus value of FY2019 benefits.
32 Diversity & inclusion numbers are calculated based upon total U.S. workforce, including associates in the U.S. regardless of whether assigned to a subsidiary that owns or operates an ecommerce business, platform and/or 
marketplace.
33 Individuals with revenue-producing responsibility are those U.S. corporate and field managers with profit and loss (P&L) responsibilities.
34 Individuals with revenue-producing responsibility are those U.S. corporate and field managers with P&L responsibilities.
35 Individuals with revenue-producing responsibility are those U.S. corporate and field managers with P&L responsibilities.
36 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019.
37 Based upon average hourly wage calculated for full-time associates assigned to Walmart U.S. stores, excluding Health and Wellness, as of March 15, 2019, plus value of FY2019 benefits.
38 A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority, veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or a member of the lesbian, gay, bisexual or 
transgender (LGBT) community.
39 A diverse supplier is defined as a U.S. privately held company that is recognized as 51% owned and operated by a woman, minority, veteran, disabled veteran, person with a disability or a member of the lesbian, gay, bisexual or 
transgender (LGBT) community.
40 Decline in emissions (Scope 1 and 2) between 2016 and 2017, is adjusted for most recent grid factors as of 2018. On an unadjusted basis (as reported to CDP, using grid factors available in the year of reporting), the decline was 
9.9%.
41 Decline in emissions (Scope 1 and 2) between 2015 and 2017, is adjusted for most recent grid factors. On an unadjusted basis (as reported to CDP, using grid factors available in the year of reporting), the decline was 11.2%. 
Measurement accounts for changes in majority-owned subsidiaries over time through corresponding adjustments to baseline and year of measurement.
42 Annual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions and Carbon Intensities correspond to the results we disclose in response to the annual CDP Climate Change questionnaire and can be downloaded from the CDP website. The methodology 
is in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, meaning we use the latest available emissions factors for energy grids at the time of annual reporting to CDP. As a result, emissions 
reported to CDP in any given year are subject to the grid factors available in the year of reporting. Lucideon CICS independently verified Walmart’s reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, pursuant to ISO 14064-3 (the 
international standard for verification of Greenhouse Gas inventories). For more details, please refer to Walmart’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Methodology attached to our CDP disclosures.
43 Carbon intensity (Scopes 1 and 2 per revenue) calculation is based on emissions for calendar year and normalized by total annual revenues as measured by Walmart’s fiscal year. Decline in carbon intensity (Scopes 1 and 2 per 
revenue) between FY2017 and FY2018 is adjusted for most recent grid factors as of 2018.
44 This considers the combined contribution of the renewable energy credits and power generated from on-site and off-site projects as well as renewable energy that we receive from utility-owned renewable generation feeding 
into the grids where our sites are located. At the time this report was prepared, calendar year 2017 was the most recent year for which we have third-party-verified energy consumption data. This was used in combination with the 
electricity procured from our renewable energy projects in 2018 and the most recent grid fuel mix information obtained from the International Energy Agency for the regions where we operate.
45 Measurement accounts for changes in majority-owned subsidiaries over time through corresponding adjustments to baseline and year of measurement.
46 Calculated in accordance with Walmart’s Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology available on the Walmart Sustainability Hub.
47 We previously reported year one results as “more than 20 million metric tons”; the exact figure was 21,518,699 metric tons, plus 13,233,733 of “roll-forward” emissions which were not publicly reported and are retroactively being 
added to the year one total in line with the clarified temporal allocation procedures described in the Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology.
ENDNOTES
93
