Retail opportunity at Walmart
Walmart offers a wide variety of career opportunities, 
low barriers to entry, competitive wages and 
benefits, and paths to advancement through on-
the-job coaching, training and education. By helping 
associates acquire the skills they need to advance, we 
aim to offer a distinctive employee value proposition 
among retailers. 
Our workforce philosophy is formed around three 
foundational pillars — access to employment, stability 
and mobility — designed to lead people from entry 
to opportunity while forging a model for addressing 
global workforce development challenges. We’re 
seeing the results of this approach in the U.S.: 
• Turnover in our Walmart U.S. stores is down  
more than 10% or 1000 bps — the lowest level  
in five years
• Nearly three out of four associates would refer 
friends or family to Walmart for employment
• As of year-end FY2019, we promoted more 
than 215,000 associates to jobs with more 
responsibility and higher pay in Walmart  
U.S. stores
• As of FY2019, more than 75% of our store 
operations management team members began  
as hourly associates
• On average, a Walmart store manager makes 
$175,000 per year
Access to employment
Entry-level jobs provide economic opportunity 
and a pathway to upward mobility for many people. 
Such pathways are especially critical at a time when, 
according to the Georgetown Center on Education 
and the Workforce, job opportunities for lower-skilled 
workers across the U.S. economy have decreased. 
Walmart provides 
jobs for over  
1 million people in 
the U.S. (and over  
2 million worldwide). 
For many of our 
entry-level hourly positions, we do not require 
degrees and we have “banned the box” to lower 
barriers to entering the workforce. And we provide 
opportunities for associates to learn important  
and transferable job skills, advance their education, 
and even gain college credit — all while earning  
a paycheck.
Stability
In addition to providing an entry to employment, we 
strive to help associates maintain job stability so 
they are encouraged to stay with Walmart and are 
positioned to grow their skills and knowledge on the 
job. For example, in the U.S., we aim to do this by 
providing competitive pay and benefits, enhancing 
scheduling, and improving job design, leveraging 
technology to make jobs more rewarding. In a U.S. 
associate survey from FY2019, 74% shared that they 
feel they were able to plan or request their schedule 
far enough in advance to balance their work and 
personal life. Specific stability initiatives in the U.S. 
include the following: 
Pay
• We have raised our starting wages in the U.S. by 
more than 50% over the past three years.
• 100% of our U.S. associates earn above the federal 
minimum wage (which is currently $7.25/hour); 
newly hired associates start at $11 per hour or 
more, while key department manager roles can 
earn as much as $24.70 per hour.
• The average wage of a full-time, hourly field 
associate in our Walmart U.S. stores as of  
March 2019, is $14.26 per hour.36
• Average total compensation and benefits for a 
full-time, hourly field associate in our Walmart U.S. 
stores is $19.31 per hour, including wages, bonuses, 
and benefits such as paid time off.37
• In FY2019, $793 million in bonuses were delivered 
to full- and part-time hourly associates in our 
Walmart U.S. stores.
• Financial planning tools: Using the Even app, 
our associates can access tools to help them 
plan for bills and savings goals, eliminating the 
work of figuring out how much money is okay 
to spend. When unexpected expenses occur, 
our associates can access earned wages ahead 
of scheduled paychecks using an “Instapay” 
feature. The tools are available to all hourly and 
salaried Walmart, Sam’s Club and Walmart U.S. 
eCommerce associates. As of February 2019, 
600,000 associates used the Even app.
ONE 
MILLION+
U.S. jobs provided
47
