times per year, Walmart has provided approximately 
3.3 million free health screenings to people across 
the country. These screenings have helped customers 
discover underlying issues such as high blood pressure 
and diabetes that they now can manage. 
Our core health and wellness business for Walmart 
and Sam’s Club currently consists of more than 
5,000 retail pharmacies, 3,000 vision centers and 
400 hearing centers. Through our Healthcare Begins 
Here platform we offer customers health insurance 
education and enrollment services in stores, online 
and via call centers during annual enrollment periods 
for Medicare and Affordable Care Act plans. 
For more information, including our Health and 
Wellness Policy, please visit our Health and Wellness 
compliance website and Health and Wellness blog. 
Opioids 
Opioid abuse and dependence are a serious public 
health issue that touches our communities, patients 
and associates. Walmart is committed to taking a 
leadership role on this issue and has developed a 
comprehensive opioid stewardship initiative with 
policies, programs and tools aimed at helping prevent 
opioid abuse and dependence.  
 Walmart and Sam’s Club limit the initial opioid 
prescription for an acute condition (one expected 
to heal fairly quickly) to 7 days — informed by the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s 
guidelines. This limit helps reduce the number of pills 
dispensed, which both reduces the likelihood that 
the patient will become dependent upon opioids and 
reduces the volume of opioids that could be diverted 
for inappropriate uses by someone other than  
the patient. 
Walmart and Sam’s Club pharmacists participate 
in opioid-related training programs and use their 
knowledge to educate patients on the risks of opioid 
use and to recommend the overdose medication, 
naloxone, for patients who may be at risk for 
overdose. Certain patients can be at risk of overdose 
even when using an opioid for a legitimate medical 
purpose. We also invest in drug education programs 
for youth in our communities. We offer a free, at-
home opioid disposal product to patients. 
These are just a few of the ways Walmart is working 
to address opioid abuse and misuse, and we are 
committed to adding new initiatives and partnerships 
to continue to serve as a corporate leader and partner 
to our communities. For more information on how 
Walmart is working to combat the opioid crisis, please 
see our Opioid Stewardship website.  
66
