Social issues in the supply chain
With retail operations in 27 countries, Walmart’s 
supply chain includes more than 100,000 suppliers 
across the globe.  Walmart respects human rights 
in the supply chain. Our Responsible Sourcing 
team, working with and through our suppliers, 
mitigates risks related to worker safety and 
well-being. We set expectations for our suppliers 
through our Standards for Suppliers and use audits 
to help assess whether our standards are being 
upheld. We also evaluate our global supply chain 
using internal and external data, risk assessments 
of particular regions, countries, commodities or 
products, and guidance from industry experts  
and non-governmental organizations. 
Recognizing the need for whole-system 
transformation in a number of retail supply 
chains industry-wide, Walmart has committed 
to use our ability to bring together stakeholders 
including industries, civil society, governments 
and international organizations, to address the 
major potential risks to the dignity of workers in a 
minimum of 10 retail supply chains by 2025. Based 
on our analyses and where we believe Walmart 
can have the greatest impact, we’ve identified the 
following five supply chains:
• Produce in the U.S. and Mexico
• Shrimp in Thailand
• Tuna processed in Thailand
• Apparel in Bangladesh
• Electronics sourced for the U.S. retail market  
supply chain 
Learn more about our action in the  
Responsible supply chains section.
Climate change
We believe climate change is likely to affect 
national economies and supply chains around the 
world through potential effects such as lower crop 
yields, increased health costs and storm damage. 
According to The Sustainability Consortium, 60% 
of all greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions worldwide 
come from the global production and use of 
consumer goods. With operations and a value chain 
that span the globe, we aim to galvanize collective 
action to reduce emissions, while taking steps to 
strengthen the resilience of our business. 
Accordingly, we have set a science-based target1 
that covers our GHG emissions footprint: We aim 
to reduce emissions in our operations (Scopes 1 
and 2) by 18% by 2025 from 2015 levels; and we are 
working with suppliers to reduce or avoid emissions 
in our supply chain by 1 gigaton by 2030 through an 
initiative known as Project Gigaton.
Learn more about our actions in the Climate 
change section. 
13
