Project Gigaton action areas
Suppliers can make commitments and pursue 
initiatives in one or more of six areas:   
1. Energy 
We encourage suppliers to avoid energy-related 
emissions in two ways: first, reduce energy demand 
through optimization and efficiency; and second, 
to transition to energy sources that are renewable 
and emit little to no carbon. At the close of FY2019, 
our suppliers reported avoiding 25.2 million MT of 
emissions through work on energy. 
The Walmart Factory 
Energy Efficiency 
Program (FEEP) is 
an example of how 
practical tools can 
facilitate emissions 
reductions in supply 
chains. Through FEEP, 
we promote the 
use of McKinsey & Company’s Resource Efficiency 
Deployment Engine (RedE), a web-based tool 
designed to help suppliers identify, prioritize and 
implement energy efficiency projects. At the close 
of FY2019, more than 940 factories had joined the 
RedE system; active users report saving more than 
$29 million in annual operating expenses and avoiding 
199,854 MT of annual CO2e emissions. 
2. Waste 
Food, product and material waste in factories, 
warehouses, distribution centers and farms 
contributes to GHG emissions. Reducing and diverting 
waste from landfills can increase operating efficiency 
and lower costs. We encourage suppliers to reduce or 
eliminate waste from their operations, address post-
harvest losses on farms, standardize date labeling, 
extend product shelf life and educate customers 
about preventing food waste. Through philanthropy, 
we have also made investments to assess and reduce 
waste in food production and distribution. For 
example, the Walmart Foundation provided funding 
to the World Resources Institute to implement and 
accelerate adoption of its Food Loss and Waste 
Protocol, a publicly available approach to measure 
food waste and loss. See the Waste section of this 
report for more information on our efforts to reduce 
waste in our operations and product value chains.
3. Packaging 
Project Gigaton invites suppliers to avoid  
emissions — as well as drive down waste — by  
reducing unnecessary packaging, optimizing 
packaging materials and increasing the reuse  
and recycling of packaging.
Walmart is taking specific aim at plastics, with 
expanded waste reduction commitments for our  
U.S. private brands — commitments that are expected 
to impact an estimated 30,000 items for sale. Read 
more about our work to address plastic packaging in 
our value chain in the Waste section of this report.  
One example of progress: In FY2019, more than 
800 Walmart private label suppliers signed up for 
the How2Recycle® label (compared with only 100 in 
FY2018), and more than 16,000 Stock Keeping Units 
(SKUs) received the How2Recycle label.
4. Agriculture 
By pursuing and encouraging suppliers to adopt 
best practices in areas such as manure management, 
enteric emissions, feed inputs and other activities in 
animal agriculture, along with fertilizer optimization 
in crop production, we estimate there is a potential 
to impact 20% to 30% of our Project Gigaton GHG 
emissions goal by 2030 while reducing waste and 
improving yield. 
We have been working with many of our suppliers 
to support efforts to reduce emissions through 
fertilizer optimization. Collectively, suppliers have 
committed 36 million acres of land in these programs. 
Additionally, as part of our engagement with the 
Midwest Row Crop Collaborative, we supported 
the enrollment of over 140 demonstration farms in 
the Soil Health Partnership, an organization helping 
farmers use tools to identify, test and measure 
management practices for improving soil health. 
5. Deforestation
Walmart invites suppliers to join us in working to 
reduce deforestation through innovative sourcing 
strategies and the use of technology to increase 
transparency and supply chain accountability. 
For example, some suppliers are participating in 
place-based, multi-stakeholder initiatives that are 
intended to reduce forest loss and degradation. 
25.2 
MILLION 
MT emissions 
avoided by Walmart 
suppliers through 
work on energy
24
