Benefits
• Healthcare: Walmart offers health benefits 
starting at around $26 per pay period for  
all full- and part-time associates who have 
worked an average of 30 hours per week  
over the past 12 months. This is about 40% 
less than the national average cost for single-
person coverage. 
• 401(k): We offer 401(k) contributions and 
provide full- and part-time hourly U.S. 
associates a match of up to 6% after one year 
on the job. Associates are eligible to contribute 
to their 401(k) on their first day of work.
• Paid time off (PTO): Walmart’s U.S. PTO policy 
streamlines paid vacation, sick time, personal 
time and holiday time into one category. In 
February 2019, we introduced protected PTO, 
where not required by paid sick leave laws, 
allowing our associates to earn up to 48 hours 
of paid time that can be used anytime to cover 
scheduled shifts when they are unexpectedly 
not able to make it to work. 
• Expanded parental leave, covering U.S. 
salaried and full-time hourly associates: 
Walmart provides associates with  
parental leave, as well as assistance  
with adoption expenses.
 - The parental benefit supports associates who 
become parents through birth, adoption or 
foster-care placement with up to six weeks 
of protected paid time away from work.
 - Birth moms can receive 16 weeks of total 
paid time away when maternity and parental 
are combined (10 weeks of maternity and six 
weeks of parental leave).
 - These changes create parity for maternity 
and parental leave benefits among salaried 
and full-time hourly associates.
 Scheduling
• More than 50% of hourly associates in our 
Walmart U.S. stores are full-time. 
• Predictable scheduling: We recently 
improved schedule predictability with a new 
system based on a method called core hours. 
Associates with core-hour schedules normally 
work the same weekly shifts for at least 
13 weeks, enabling them to plan and prioritize 
important responsibilities outside of work. 
• Flexible scheduling: In November 2018, we 
rolled out My Walmart Schedule, a system that 
allows associates to view schedules, swap shifts 
with other associates and pick up unfilled shifts. 
Evolving job design
Meeting customer demand for new and better 
experiences requires changes to jobs, new 
associate skills, and redesign of store processes 
and systems. 
Even as technology enables efficiencies in some 
areas, we’re creating new opportunities and 
training associates to lead in others. We have more 
than 35,000 people working in our U.S. stores 
in roles that didn’t exist two years ago. Some 
of those roles include personal shoppers for 
Online Grocery Pickup, self-checkout hosts and 
customer hosts. We’re also providing associates 
with tools that help them do their jobs such as 
AI-powered FAST Unloaders that make unloading 
trucks more efficient, which can enable associates 
who previously spent large portions of their 
shifts unloading trucks to learn new skills such as 
customer service and merchandising. 
48
