Forced labor
Walmart has prioritized working with others to 
combat forced labor in the global supply chain. 
Example efforts include: 
• Responsible recruitment: As a member of the 
Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment, 
Walmart works to create demand for ethically 
recruited workers in Thailand and Malaysia and 
advocate for better government regulation of 
recruitment agencies. 
• Seafood Task Force: Since 2015 we have 
participated in this international, multi-
stakeholder initiative to address forced labor and 
illegal fishing in the Thai seafood supply chain. The 
Seafood Task Force has developed supply chain 
maps, established a system to track products 
across the supply chain, worked with government 
and industry stakeholders to improve regulation 
and codes of conduct, and championed fishery 
improvement projects. In FY2019, the Task Force 
Board approved the Vessel Auditable Standards, 
which extend auditing practices and performance 
expectations to fishing boats, beyond ports and 
land-based monitoring. Walmart also participates 
in the Tuna subgroup. 
• Immersive field visits: These visits help 
Walmart teams better understand complex 
forced labor issues in supply chains such as 
tuna. For example, a team comprised of Global 
Sourcing, Responsible Sourcing, Sustainability 
and Corporate Affairs visited Thailand and the 
Marshall Islands to explore the canned tuna supply 
chain. The team visited tuna boats, met workers, 
interviewed captains, saw processing plants and 
canning facilities, and observed unloading and 
loading processes.
The Walmart Foundation also aims to decrease 
the risk of forced labor through philanthropic 
investments focused on: (1) strengthening demand 
for responsible labor and practices; (2) using data and 
technology to increase transparency; (3) enhancing 
worker and community voice; and (4) supporting 
efforts to improve enforcement of existing 
regulations. For example, in FY2019, the Walmart 
Foundation provided support to FishWise to develop 
the Roadmap for Improving Seafood Ethics (RISE), an 
online platform that details steps companies can take 
to improve responsible practices in seafood supply 
chains. By providing tailored recommendations to 
producers, processors, brands and retailers on how to 
build, assess and improve social practices — and track 
progress toward more ethical performance — RISE 
can help drive advancements in worker dignity in 
fishing supply chains around the world.  
As another example, in 2016, the Walmart Foundation 
made a grant to International Justice Mission (IJM), 
building upon funding from other institutions, to 
help open the IJM Bangkok office to work alongside 
the Royal Thai Government as it combats human 
trafficking networks in the Thai fishing industry.  
Learn more at Walmart.org. 
Walmart also supports the nonprofit Truckers 
Against Trafficking, which trains and encourages 
transportation professionals to recognize and 
report suspected human trafficking incidents. In 
2015, Walmart conducted a training initiative with 
its private fleet drivers in the identification and 
prevention of human trafficking. In FY2020, Walmart 
plans to incorporate that same training into its new-
driver onboarding process.
Worker safety
We expect our suppliers to provide a safe working 
environment. To address systemic issues affecting 
worker conditions more broadly, we collaborate with 
other companies, NGOs and experts. For example, in 
2013, Walmart was a founding member of the Alliance 
for Bangladesh Worker Safety, which provided 
extensive fire safety training; gave access to a 24-
hour, confidential helpline to report safety and other 
job-related concerns; and supported remediation 
of factory safety issues. According to the Alliance’s 
fifth annual report, 90% of high-priority remediation 
items were complete across all factories affiliated 
with the Alliance, and nearly 1.6 million workers have 
been trained in fire safety. More than 1.5 million 
workers now have access to the 24-hour confidential 
helpline. While the Alliance’s commitment ended in 
2018, Walmart remains dedicated to worker safety in 
Bangladesh.
59
