Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 26
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
Empowering our 
employees
Our leadership is focused on bringing out the best in people, sup-
porting their goals, and allowing them to find deep meaning in their 
work.
Our commitment and approach At Microsoft, we strive to create a respectful, rewarding, diverse, and inclusive work 
environment that enables our employees to create products and services that help 
others to achieve more. 
Our culture 
Perhaps the most important driver of our success is culture. We fundamentally 
believe that we need a culture founded in a growth mindset. It starts with the belief 
that everyone can grow and develop; potential is nurtured, not predetermined; and 
anyone can change their mindset.
Learn more about our mission and culture ?
Respecting human rights  
Through Microsoft’s Global Human Rights Statement, and as a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact, we’re committed to respecting the following human rights cove-
nants and declarations:
Universal Declaration of Human Rights ?
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ?
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights ?
International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work* ?   
*Those ILO principles are freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; elimination of all forms of 
forced or compulsory labor; effective abolition of child labor; and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 
Compensation and benefits  
Our Performance and Development program applies to Microsoft employees glob-
ally at every level of the organization to the extent permitted by local law. Stock-
based compensation is a key component of our rewards programs at Microsoft, as it 
provides an ownership stake in the company’s success. Over 85 percent of Microsoft 
employees are eligible for an annual stock award. In addition, 90 percent of Mic-
rosoft’s employees are eligible for a cash bonus. Bonuses focus on an individual’s 
business impact over the past year. 
Learn more about our benefits ?
