Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
Human rights 
We endeavor to respect and champion human rights in the way we 
do business, and seek to advance those rights by applying the power 
of technology. 
Our commitment and approach Microsoft aspires to leadership in business and human rights, and to serve as a 
catalyst for action by others—in the technology sector and beyond. 
Class-leading due diligence
We aim to conduct best-in-class human rights impact assessments, salient Microsoft 
action, and emerging trends in business and human rights.
Rights-aware decision making 
We’re deploying an integrated approach to human rights decision making across 
key aspects of Microsoft.
Proactive engagement 
We use actions and public statements to demonstrate that Microsoft is an import-
ant voice, and advocate for the promotion of human rights. 
Transparent leadership
We’re advancing transparency in our work and promoting human rights through 
increased disclosure and engagement.
FY17 Highlights The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Global Network 
Initiative Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy, steer Microsoft’s human 
rights work. 
Implementing global human rights standards 
We’re ensuring that technology plays a positive role around the globe. We’ve issued 
a major update to our Global Human Rights Statement; provided training for our 
employees; and continue our ongoing human rights impact assessment into artifi-
cial intelligence. 
Read the Global Human Rights Statement ?
Empowering the UN’s Human Rights Office 
We’re working with the UN’s Human Rights Office to help them develop technol-
ogy to predict, analyze, and respond to human rights situations; collaborating on 
joint projects; and making a multi-million-dollar grant. 
Read about our partnership ?
Promoting human rights and security 
Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter, and YouTube formed the Global Internet Forum to 
Counter Terrorism, allowing us to continue making our hosted consumer services 
hostile to terrorists and violent extremists.
Read about the forum ?
