Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
FY17 Highlights We’re investing in the Cloud, making digital literacy accessible to young people, 
supporting refugees, and looking at ways to close the rural broadband gap in the 
U.S. once and for all.
Technology for social impact 
In January 2016, we announced that Microsoft would donate more than $1 billion 
in cloud technology to non-profits and university researchers. We’ve achieved that 
goal a year early, donating cloud services to more than 90,000 non-profits, and we 
aren’t stopping there. In September, we announced a plan to more than triple the 
number of non-profits we’ll reach to 300,000 over the next three years.
Learn more about nonprofit offers from Microsoft ?
 
Digital skills and computer science education   
To ensure all young people are equipped to participate in an increasingly digi-
tal world, Microsoft invests in making digital skills—from digital literacy through 
computer science education—available to youth around the world, especially those 
youth least likely to have access. More than 80 percent of the students benefitting 
from YouthSpark grants and partnerships are from underserved communities, and 
more than half are female. 
Read about Microsoft YouthSpark ?
Humanitarian and refugee response   
In FY17, Microsoft Philanthropies provided more than $30 million in technology and 
cash donations to emergency response organizations and organizations serving 
refugees and displaced people including Mercy Corps, CARE, the International Res-
cue Committee, and NetHope. We also provide digital skills resources for nonprofits 
working with refugees. 
Find out more ?
Affordable broadband access   
In addition to a new rural broadband strategy to close the rural broadband gap in 
the U.S. within five years, Microsoft also announced a Rural Airband Initiative. We’re 
investing in partnerships with telecommunications companies to bring broadband 
connectivity to two million people in rural America, increase digital skills training in 
rural communities, and catalyze investments by sharing technologies we’ve devel-
oped.  
Read about the initiative ?
Donations and volunteerism 
In FY17, Microsoft Philanthropies donated more than $1.2 billion in software and 
services to non-profits worldwide as part of our focus on helping people get the 
skills and knowledge they need in today’s digital economy.  In addition, our employ-
ees continue to demonstrate their generosity, having raised a record-breaking $142 
million through our Employee Giving Program in 2016.
Read more about our commitment to make a difference ?
