Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
Applications and infrastructure 
Cloud computing is foundational to enabling digital transformation for any organi-
zation. Beyond being a trusted, global, hyper-scale cloud, what makes Azure unique 
is our hybrid consistency, developer productivity and SaaS application integration. 
Our hybrid infrastructure consistency spans identity, data, compute, management 
and security, helping to support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory re-
quirements of commercial customers and enterprise-focused SaaS ISVs. Azure Stack 
is an extension of Azure that enables developers to build and deploy applications 
the same way whether they run on the intelligent cloud or the intelligent edge. With 
Visual Studio and Azure Services, we provide the toolchain and application platform 
for modern DevOps that helps organizations with their agility and productivity — 
and enable them to use the best of the Windows ecosystem and the best of the 
Linux ecosystem together. Azure enables SaaS ISV developers to reach 100 million 
plus enterprise users through the integration of Azure Active Directory and Office 
365, and by embedding Power BI, Power Apps and Flow as part of their applica-
tions, enables customers to have consistent identity, developer extensibility and 
security across their application portfolio spanning their own custom applications 
and SaaS applications. 
Data and AI
The core currency of any business going forward will be the ability to reason over 
its data using AI to drive competitive advantage. Microsoft Research continues to 
make significant advances in AI technologies, infusing them into product experienc-
es like Bing, Cortana, LinkedIn Newsfeed, Skype Translator, Editor and PowerPoint 
Designer in Office, Relationship Health in Dynamics, HoloLens, and many more. We 
are uniquely positioned to take this AI capability and democratize it, so that every 
developer can be an AI developer, and every company can become an AI company. 
It all starts with having support for the comprehensive data estate spanning Azure 
Database, Cosmos DB, Data Warehouse and Data Lake, combined with SQL Server. 
Azure is the cloud with the richest set of ML tools, bot framework and cognitive 
services, enabling developers to add AI capabilities into their applications. With 
state-of-the-art GPU and FPGA support, our Azure infrastructure is best in class for 
AI workloads. I am excited about our road map here and what’s to come.
Gaming
The $100 billion plus gaming industry is experiencing massive growth and transfor-
mation, and we have an expansive opportunity as we think about gaming end-to-
end — from the way games are created and distributed to how they are played and 
viewed. We will build on our strong foundation of connected gaming assets across 
PC, console, mobile and work to grow and engage the 53 million strong Xbox Live 
member network more deeply and frequently — from great game experiences to 
streaming to social to mixed reality. We will be the company for gamers to play the 
games they want, with the people they want, on the devices they want. I’m excited 
about our opportunity to accelerate our growth opportunity, innovate boldly and 
earn new fans.
While these solution areas capture our near-term opportunity, we’re also investing 
in cutting-edge research to lead well into the future. Artificial intelligence, mixed 
reality and quantum computing will come together and shape the future of our 
industry and others for generations to come. We’re deeply committed to leading in 
these areas and bringing them together in ways that enable humanity to solve our 
most pressing issues, from climate change to curing cancer to creating economic 
opportunity for all. We will do so by adhering to the highest ethical principles and 
standing for our timeless values.
