Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
Collaborating with UC Berkeley
We’re partnering with UC Berkeley in new annual conferences, student consulting 
projects, and other collaborative efforts to integrate key human rights issues directly 
into business education. 
Read how we’re working together ?
Calling for a Digital Geneva Convention  
We outlined a framework to protect and defend civilians against nation-spon-
sored cyberattacks, including a proposed binding agreement and independent 
attribution organization. 
Discover the need for global norms ?
FY17 Reporting resources
Get the bigger picture
Salient Human Rights Issues Report
Using the United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, we disclose each 
of our salient human rights issues and FY17 activities through a detailed, download-
able report. 
GNI Assessment 2015/2016
Read the Global Network Initiative’s Public Report on the 2015/16 Independent 
Company Assessments.
Microsoft Reports Hub 
Microsoft provides a number of disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re 
meeting our commitments. We consolidate these reports in one place for easy 
reference or download.
2017 GRI Index  
Our 2017 report content contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
Microsoft Global Human Rights Statement
Committing Microsoft’s employees, partners, and suppliers to respect and promote 
human rights, and to ensure that technology plays a positive role across the globe.
Read the Global Human Rights Statement ?
Accessibility
We’re creating and delivering technology that is accessible and functional for 
people of all abilities. 
Learn more about accessibility ?
Freedom of expression and privacy
We respect peoples’ right to freedom of expression and their right to freedom from 
arbitrary and unlawful interference with privacy online.
Learn about freedom of expression ? 
Visit these key resources across microsoft.com to learn more about our Global 
Human Rights Statement, our salient human rights issues, and our bi-annual digital 
trust reports.
