Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
FY17 Highlights Microsoft continues to define leadership in business and human rights, and to act as 
a catalyst for others who are taking action in the technology sector and beyond.
Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA)
We enabled full transparency and accountability of SEA metrics in 100% of our sup-
pliers and factories, and enabled fuller insights using Microsoft PowerBI for improv-
ing working conditions and business ethics.
Read details of our program ?  
Magnesium dust collection system for improved safety   
With our suppliers, we co-created an innovative and cost effective wet system for 
magnesium dust collection. It is now accepted as a compliance method to meet 
China Central Safety Bureau Standard AQ4272-2016 for prevention of dust explo-
sions. 
Worker hotline 
Our Worker Hotline program continues to provide a voice for workers to privately 
and safely express issues and concerns and achieve issue resolution in all our Tier 1 
and select Tier 2 suppliers. 
“Children out of Mining” program 
We continue to grow our partnership with Pact to address child labor in the Dem-
ocratic Republic of the Congo. The program has received international recognition 
and has reduced child labor by 77 to 97 percent over the course of the project to 
date.  
Learn about Pact ?
Mapped key raw materials to their origins 
We completed our mapping of the origination of key raw materials that are used in 
our complex and global upstream supply chain, to identify and prioritize areas of 
risk.  
Supplier diversity  
In FY17, Microsoft spent more than $2.6 billion with minority-, disabled-, veteran-, 
and woman-owned businesses, ranking among the top 20 companies globally for 
spending with diverse suppliers. We also expanded our supplier diversity program 
to businesses owned by those with disabilities and added new accessibility require-
ments to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
FY17 Reporting resources Microsoft’s Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Learn about our actions to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our 
business and supply chain.
Microsoft Devices: Social and Environmental Accountability Report
See key results of our Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) audits and 
assessments. 
Microsoft Conflict Minerals Report
Read the latest detailed results of our annual conflict minerals due diligence process 
and findings.
Production Supplier List
Each year, Microsoft publishes a list of our top 100 production suppliers for our 
commercially available devices.  
