Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
OUR RESPONSIBILITY IN THE WORLD 
Our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet ex-
tends to our corporate social responsibility efforts. We strive to use our technology, 
grants, employees and voice to improve people’s lives by enabling access to the 
benefits and opportunities that technology offers. This past year we increased our 
investments across a range of strategic initiatives.
• Microsoft Philanthropies donated more than $1.2 billion in software and services in fiscal 2017, 
helping nonprofits around the world get the technology and skills they need for today’s digital 
economy.
• Since 2016 we have donated more than $1 billion in cloud services to more than 90,000 nonprofits 
and university researchers — achieving our $1 billion milestone a year early — and announced a 
new plan to more than triple the number of nonprofits we’ll reach to 300,000 over the next three 
years.
• Our employees raised a record-breaking $142 million through our employee giving program 
in 2016. I am proud and humbled by their commitment to not only make a difference with our 
customers and partners, but in their local communities and the broader world.
• We’re ensuring that our products and services are accessible to meet the needs of all our custom-
ers, including the more than 1 billion people around the world with disabilities. Examples include 
our new Eye Control feature in Windows 10 for people with ALS, and Seeing AI, a free app on iOS 
for blind and low vision users that narrates the world around you.
• We’re partnering with telecommunications companies through our Rural Airband Initiative to 
bring broadband connectivity to 2 million people in rural America by 2022, helping to close the 
rural broadband gap for the more than 20 million Americans living in rural communities who lack 
access to the economic, educational and health opportunities the internet provides.
• We’re advancing our sustainability efforts, completing our largest wind energy purchase to date 
and aiming to address some of the world’s toughest environment challenges through our new AI 
for Earth initiative.
• Finally, as part of our broader responsibility to engage thoughtfully in the public dialogue on the 
important challenges facing our world, we published “A Cloud for Global Good” to help compa-
nies and governments ensure technology is trusted, responsible and inclusive.
When I reflect on the past year, I’m proud of our progress — both in our own 
continued transformation and in how we are empowering customers to digitally 
transform.
As a multinational corporation, we have both a substantial opportunity and a high 
responsibility to ensure that technology’s benefits reach people more broadly across 
our global society and economy. Everywhere we operate, we focus on contributing 
to local communities in positive ways — helping to spark growth, competitiveness 
and economic opportunity for all. 
To serve the needs of our customers well into the future, we must continually trans-
form while remaining steadfast to our timeless values. Microsoft has both the capa-
bility and the culture to help customers digitally transform today, while creating new 
technologies that are among the most innovative and impactful humankind has 
ever experienced with mixed reality, artificial intelligence and quantum computing.
We will continue to invest in the highest growth opportunities, innovate boldly, and 
empower people and organizations by creating the platforms and tools that enable 
others to grow and thrive, now and well into the future.
Satya Nadella
Chief Executive Officer
October 16, 2017
