Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
Governance of CSR
Empowering every person and every organization on the planet 
to achieve more means going beyond providing the products and 
services that allow our customers to do great things. It means being 
thoughtful about the impact of our own business practices, policies, 
and investments in communities.
We see the big picture Microsoft’s Technology and Corporate Responsibility (TCR) team, in collabora-
tion with leaders across Microsoft’s business and operations, drives companywide 
approaches to key corporate social responsibility issues. The head of TCR reports 
directly to Microsoft’s President and Chief Legal Officer, Brad Smith, who sits on 
Microsoft’s Senior Leadership Team and reports directly to our CEO, Satya Nadella. 
We work together to earn the trust and confidence of the public, our customers, 
partners, employees, and shareholders. 
The charter for the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Direc-
tors includes the responsibility to “review and provide guidance to the board and 
management about the company’s policies and programs that relate to corporate 
social responsibility, including human rights, environmental sustainability, responsi-
ble sourcing, and philanthropy.”  
Microsoft’s work in corporate social responsibility fosters sustained business success 
over the long term. Our corporate governance framework, policies, and practices 
are described in detail in our financial filings and on the corporate governance sec-
tion of our Investor Relations website.    
Details about Microsoft’s Ethics and Compliance policies and programs include our 
Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to Microsoft employees, executive 
officers, our Board of Directors, and Microsoft subsidiaries and controlled affiliates 
(where Microsoft directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the voting con-
trol). Channels are provided to ensure that concerns can be raised and subsequently
addressed. All Microsoft employees must complete an annual Standards of Business 
Conduct training course, available in 16 languages. In FY17, as in previous years, 
course completion was more than 99 percent. In addition, mandatory trainings ad-
dress the compliance risks of specific roles and business functions, while a variety of 
additional guidance options ensure awareness of our policies and our expectations 
for ethical behavior. 
