Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 6
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
THYSSENKRUPP
Thyssenkrupp Elevator is using HoloLens to transform the way it measures, visual-
izes and installs its products, streamlining the initial surveying process of a stair lift 
installation. Using spatial mapping, 3-D visualization and the natural inputs offered 
by mixed reality, the company has digitized its sales and manufacturing processes 
to reduce delivery times as much as 4x, transforming its customer experience and 
growing its business opportunity.
Watch video ?
TETRA PAK
Tetra Pak, the world’s largest food packaging company and inventor of the 20th 
century’s most important innovation in that industry, aseptic packaging technology, 
employs Azure to enable its cloud-connected machines to predict exactly when 
equipment needs maintenance. Service engineers use HoloLens to access experts 
who remotely guide them through a repair, reducing time and cost. With the cloud 
and mixed reality, Tetra Pak is delivering new and existing value in a much more 
efficient way — in the most remote locations, on the most mobile devices.
Watch video ?
LAND O’ LAKES
Land O’ Lakes is working to feed the world sustainably by embracing the Microsoft 
Cloud, predictive data analytics and mobile technologies in tandem with family 
farmers. Using Azure, Office 365 and Surface, farmers in different parts of the world 
can access agronomic research, weather information and satellite data to make the 
right planting decisions and react to real-time changes in the field, every day.
Watch video ?
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC 
Responsible and sustainable management of fresh water is one of the world’s big-
gest challenges. With 70 percent of fresh water reserves being used for agricultural 
purposes, every drop counts. Schneider Electric has built a smart farming platform 
using Azure IoT to enable farmers to more efficiently manage water use. Advanced 
analytics, live local data from sensors on the farm and access to pricing information 
from the local water utility allow farmers to maximize crop and livestock yields and 
lower energy consumption by pumping water at optimal times.
Watch video ?
CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY AND CLEVELAND CLINIC
Case Western Reserve University and Cleveland Clinic are using mixed reality to 
transform medical education. Using HoloLens, they built an entirely new and im-
mersive way to teach and learn human anatomy. Doctors who have looked at data 
sets like this for years say they have never fully understood the 3-D structure until 
seeing it as a hologram with HoloLens, giving them the ability to see a brain tumor 
in mixed reality and predict the impact of the tumor with 3-D modeling, or seeing 
the aortic valve in true relation to the critical structures around it.
Watch video ?
 
 
