Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
FY17 Highlights We spent 2017 deepening our commitment to diversity and inclusion, offering our 
employees valuable training, and finding better ways to support both them and 
those they care about.
Employee feedback counts   
In FY17, 86% of employees participated in an annual anonymous poll conducted 
by a third-party vendor. We received record high scores: 92% feel proud to work at 
Microsoft; 88% would recommend it as a great place to work.
Ethical business decision making  
All Microsoft employees must complete annual training on our Standards of Busi-
ness Conduct. The training course is available in 16 languages. In FY17, as in previ-
ous years, we achieved a completion rate for the course of greater than 99 percent. 
Read the standards ?
Committed to diversity and inclusion   
Building on our commitment to create a more diverse Microsoft, we announced 
our dedication of resources against a range of priorities and initiatives focused on 
retention, culture, and pipeline expansion pivots. 
Hear from Gwen Houston ?
Family caregiver leave 
Microsoft is now offering its employees family caregiver leave, a new global benefit 
that will allow workers to take up to four weeks of fully paid leave to care for an 
immediate family member with a serious health condition.
Read the announcement ?
FY17 Reporting resources Workforce demographics
The demographics of our workforce will continue to serve as one measure of our 
progress toward a more diverse and inclusive Microsoft, and our contribution to the 
diversity of the tech industry at large. 
Microsoft Reports Hub
Microsoft provides a number of disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re 
meeting our commitments. We collect and provide all of these reports in one place 
for easy reference or download. 
2017 GRI Index  
Our 2017 report content contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
