Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
Leading regulator takes privacy post  
In April 2017, Microsoft announced that it had hired former Commissioner of the 
U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Julie Brill, to lead privacy, data protection, and other 
regulatory issues at Microsoft. Brill is a globally recognized leader on privacy, data 
protection, and cybersecurity law and policy.
Enabling compliance with new privacy protections
In May 2018, the European Union is imposing strong new privacy rules: The General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Microsoft believes GDPR is an important step 
forward for privacy rights and we’re committed to GDPR compliance across our 
cloud services. We’re among the first cloud service providers to include GDPR-relat-
ed assurances in our contractual commitments with customers and are committed 
to helping other organizations comply as well.
Stranding up for users’ rights  
Microsoft has helped lead our industry in pushing for reform in government 
surveillance in the U.S. and around the world. We’re challenging an effort by the 
U.S. government to use search warrants unilaterally to reach beyond U.S. borders. 
We’re supporting efforts to modernize U.S. surveillance laws and sparked the idea 
of a Digital Geneva Convention—an international treaty to protect civilians from 
state-sponsored cyberattacks.  
FY17 Reporting resources Law Enforcement Requests Report
This semi-annual report provides information about the legal demands for custom-
er data we receive from law enforcement agencies around the world, as well as our 
responses to them.
U.S. National Security Orders Report
This semi-annual report provides the data we’re legally allowed to share about de-
mands for customer data we receive from the U.S. Government pursuant to national 
security laws, as well as our responses to them.
Microsoft Reports Hub
Microsoft provides a number of disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we 
are meeting our commitments. We collect and provide all of these reports in one 
place for easy reference or download.
2017 GRI Index  
Our 2017 report content contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
