Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 36
Our approach Principles People ResourcesPlanet
Environmental  
sustainability 
Microsoft is committed to leveraging technology to solve some of the 
world’s most urgent environmental issues, and focusing on key areas 
where we believe we can have the most positive impact.
Our commitment and approach
Focus areas
We focus our environmental sustainability work in the five areas where we believe 
we can have the greatest positive impact—carbon, energy, water, ecosystems (in-
cluding food, agriculture, and biodiversity), and circular economy (including waste 
reduction). Across these areas, we work to reduce our impact within our own opera-
tions, collaborate with our partners to take advantage of digital transformations that 
reduce their footprint, and support innovation, R&D, and policies that help create a 
more sustainable future.    
  
Carbon  
We achieved carbon neutrality annually by improving operational efficiency, buying 
clean energy, and investing in carbon offset community projects. We fund both our 
carbon neutrality commitment and environmental innovation initiatives with our 
internal sustainability fee—charging our business groups for their emissions from 
electricity and air travel. We use our digital technology to decouple our economic 
growth from carbon emissions in our supply chain operations. And we disclose our 
carbon emissions and approach to climate change annually through CDP.  
Learn more about our carbon program ?
Energy
We’ve committed to using 50 percent wind, solar, and hydropower electricity in our 
datacenters and campus by the end of 2018, to meet 60 percent early in the next 
decade, and to continue growing that percentage moving forward. We support 
the global clean energy transition by investing in technology research for smarter, 
greener grids, working to make clean energy more accessible and affordable, and 
backing clean energy policy. We increase the energy efficiency of our new devices 
and leverage the energy saving capabilities of Windows 10 to provide a better user 
experience while reducing consumer energy use. And we make our efforts acces-
sible by reporting our energy consumption—including renewable energy procure-
ment—annually through CDP.  
Learn more about our commitment to clean energy ?
Empowering every person and organization on the planet to thrive in a re-
source-constrained world.
