Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
Letter from our CEO 
Dear shareholders, customers, partners, and employees:
Thank you for your support and investment in Microsoft. We’re proud of our prog-
ress this year, and we are eager to make even more progress in the year ahead.
We continue to be guided by our mission to empower every person and every or-
ganization on the planet to achieve more. The breadth and depth of our mission 
unlocks unprecedented opportunity as technology transforms every industry and 
has the power to make a difference in the lives of everyone. We strive to create local 
opportunity, growth and impact in every community and country around the world. 
Our platforms and tools enable creativity in all of us, and help drive small-business 
productivity, large business competitiveness and public-sector efficiency. They also 
support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower 
human ingenuity. Our sense of purpose lies in our customers’ success.
Now let me share more about what we delivered in fiscal 2017 for our shareholders, 
our customers and partners, and for the communities in which we operate through-
out the world.
PROGRESS AND OUR RESULTS
We delivered $90.0 billion in revenue and $22.3 billion in operating income this past 
fiscal year. Adjusting for Windows 10 revenue deferrals and restructuring expenses, 
revenue was $96.7 billion with $29.3 billion in operating income.
We continued to invest in innovation and expand our market opportunities, while 
maintaining our commitment to shareholder return, which included total cash re-
turn of $22.3 billion this year. 
Our commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate ended the year exceeding $18.9 
billion, up more than 56 percent year-over-year. Our cloud growth puts us squarely 
on track to reach the goal we set a little over two years ago of $20 billion in com-
mercial cloud annualized revenue run rate in fiscal 2018.   
“Everywhere we operate, we focus on con-
tributing to local communities in positive 
ways—helping to spark growth, competi-
tiveness and economic opportunity for all.”
