Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
Transparent reporting
We want to help users make informed choices about how they use
our products and services, and stakeholders evaluate how we’re
meeting our commitments to CSR.
About our report
Standards
Our CSR report is a living reporting medium designed to share information about 
how we’re making the world a better place. The report offers comparable year-over-
year data about our progress. But it also provides quick links to additional resources
across Microsoft.com and around the web for the most comprehensive story. This
year, a shared letter from Satya Nadella, addressing our business and social impacts,
opens both our 2017 CSR and Financial Annual reports. Unless otherwise stated, the
information in our 2017 CSR report covers all of Microsoft’s global operations during 
our fiscal year 2017 (July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017).
Although we’ve designed our reporting content first and foremost for digital dis-
play, it’s also available via PDF format to provide access options for our stakehold-
ers.  Our online Reports Hub provides download options for the full report as well 
as individual report sections and additional related supplemental reports.
Our CSR report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
(GRI’s) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which were used to prepare the 
content included in this report. Please see our GRI G4 Index for detailed data and 
additional information.
The human rights-related disclosures are based on the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework (RAFI). In addition, this report 
serves as Microsoft’s Annual Communication on Progress under the United Nations 
(UN) Global Compact. The following table describes the location of relevant report 
content for each of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles.  
UN Global Compact Index
Human Rights
Labor
Principle 1:
Principle 3:
Principle 5:
Principle 2:
Principle 4:
Principle 6:
Businesses should support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights.
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
The effective abolition of child labor.
Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.
The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation.
Empowering our employees, Human rights, Responsible sourcing
Empowering our employees, Responsible sourcing
Empowering our employees, Responsible sourcing
Empowering our employees, Responsible sourcing
Empowering our employees, Responsible sourcing
Empowering our employees, Human rights, Responsible sourcing
