Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
The strength of our results across our reporting segments reflects our accelerating 
innovation as well as increased customer usage and engagement across our busi-
nesses. 
• More than 100 million people use Office 365 commercial.
• More than 27 million consumers use Office 365 Home & Personal across devices.
• More than 53 million members are active on Xbox Live. 
• More than 500 million LinkedIn members use the LinkedIn network.
• Windows 10 is active on more than 500 million devices around the world.
• Dynamics 365 customers grew more than 40 percent year-over-year.
• Azure compute usage more than doubled year-over-year.
We prioritized our investments to capture our expanding market opportunities. We 
are investing for the future with product innovation complemented by new acquisi-
tions and partnerships. We have completed our acquisition of LinkedIn to connect 
the world’s largest professional network with the world’s leading professional cloud. 
We are investing to create broader economic benefit and opportunity with our 
datacenter expansion, bringing Azure to 42 regions globally — more than any other 
cloud provider — and with the most comprehensive compliance coverage in the 
industry.
We broadened our offerings to reach new audiences, such as bringing Office 365 
to firstline workers from retail and hospitality to manufacturing. We took collabo-
ration to a new level with Microsoft Teams, which brings people, conversations and 
content together in a digital hub. We are in the forefront of innovating in mixed 
reality and how this new medium can radically change gaming, firstline and knowl-
edge work through immersive experiences. We are innovating in gaming with new 
services such as Mixer and Xbox Game Pass. We introduced hundreds of new Azure 
services, including new cognitive services APIs for vision, speech, text, translation, 
emotion and more. We have galvanized the company’s efforts around AI both to 
power each of our product categories with breakthrough capabilities and make the 
same capabilities available to our customers through Azure. We inspired new ways 
for students and teachers to create and learn with Windows 10 S. And we continued 
to create new device categories with Windows 10 and Surface, including the new 
Surface Studio and Laptop. 
And we’re continually transforming to better serve customers, evolving our sales 
and marketing approach to galvanize around five core customer solution areas.
Across every industry in every corner of the world, our customers are using Micro-
soft technologies to radically transform everything from agriculture to manufactur-
ing, and we are only at the beginning. Here are some examples.
BOEING
Boeing is using Microsoft HoloLens for 3-D visualization to transform employee 
training, and it is using Cortana Intelligence, Azure and Azure IoT to harness a 
wealth of aircraft data. This “digital twin” aircraft increases crew and maintenance 
efficiency, improves customer experience, and creates a new business model and 
services that Boeing can offer its airline customers.
Watch video ?
