Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
LOOKING FORWARD: OUR EXPANSIVE OPPORTUNITY
A new technology paradigm
As you can begin to see in the examples above, a new technology paradigm is 
emerging, one with an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge. Microsoft will lead 
this new era. There are three characteristics that define this shift. The first is that the 
experience layer is becoming multidevice and multisense, where a person’s expe-
rience with technology will span a multitude of devices and become increasingly 
more natural and multisensory with voice, ink, gestures and gaze interactions. Sec-
ond, artificial intelligence (AI) will be pervasive across devices, apps and infrastruc-
ture to drive insights and act on your behalf. Third, computing will be more distrib-
uted than ever before with compute power at the edge, whether it’s the connected 
car, the connected factory floor or any connected device. As developers write new 
applications for this paradigm, they need new mechanisms to manage the complex-
ity of distributed, event-driven computing.
With this new paradigm comes new opportunity. Every customer is looking for both 
innovative technology to drive new growth and a strategic partner that can help 
them build their own digital capability. Customers are looking to change how they 
use digital technology and to reimagine how they empower their employees, en-
gage customers, optimize their operations, and change the very core of their prod-
ucts and services. They are building their own digital systems of intelligence to drive 
growth. Microsoft is uniquely positioned to capitalize on this opportunity with the 
combination of our technology, partner ecosystem and culture of growth mindset.
As we look ahead to fiscal 2018 and beyond, we will focus on bringing our technol-
ogy and products together into experiences and solutions that deliver new value 
for our customers. Going forward, we will focus our innovation and investments in 
areas where we see the greatest opportunity for growth.
The modern workplace
The workplace itself is transforming — from changing employee expectations, a 
widening skills gap, more diverse and globally distributed teams, to an increasingly 
complex threat environment. The productivity experiences and tools we deliver will 
unlock the creator in all of us and enable seamless teamwork not just in the work-
place, but also at school and at home across all the devices people use — from 
the phone to the laptop to mixed-reality headsets to the whiteboard. Microsoft 
365 — which brings together Windows 10, Office 365 and Enterprise Mobility & 
Security — will be a key driver of value for our business customers of all sizes and 
for our business growth. The Microsoft Graph, which provides the underlying data 
model of the user’s experience, and the LinkedIn network, will make it possible for 
every professional in any business or functional role to be much more productive in 
getting things done. 
Business applications
Every process inside a business is being digitized. This rapid shift means customers 
are looking to move away from monolithic suites that perpetuate disconnected data 
siloes and expensive custom extensibility frameworks. Our approach with Dynam-
ics 365 and LinkedIn is to build modular business applications that are part of a 
connected data graph, enabling AI and extensibility that span a customer’s business 
process needs. We will enable organizations of all sizes to digitize business-critical 
functions across relationship sales, talent and people processes, operations, cus-
tomer service, field service, and more. 
