Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
Diversity and inclusion  
For more than two decades, our Global Diversity and Inclusion Office has evolved 
and enhanced the company’s diversity and inclusion initiatives so that we can con-
tinue to meet the changing needs of our workforce and business. We are deeply 
committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees can do their 
best work. Our commitment is based on strengthening our diversity and inclusion 
acumen; deepening leader and manager understanding of our diversity strategy 
and its value proposition; and increasing senior leader accountability for their diver-
sity plans. 
Learn more about global diversity and inclusion at Microsoft ?
 
Training and development  
To support our growth mindset culture and meet the learning needs of our em-
ployees around the world, we offer a diverse range of learning and development 
opportunities. We believe training is not limited to formal instruction, and our train-
ing philosophy focuses on providing the right learning, at the right time, in the right 
way. Opportunities include: 
• Training in the classroom, online, and through videos, mobile apps, podcasts, and other formats 
in multiple languages.
• On-the-job “stretch” opportunities for advancement.
• Frequent promotion opportunities.
• Coaching on career development through ongoing connections with managers. 
• Customized training for managers to enhance skills in coaching and mentoring. 
• Robust new employee orientation on a range of topics including exploration of our company 
values, culture and Standards of Business Conduct.
Wellness and safety  
Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ well-being with compre-
hensive benefits to help employees maximize their physical, financial, and social 
wellness. In addition, Microsoft’s Health and Safety program integrates appropriate 
practices into our operations, and works for continual improvement in employee 
health and safety. As part of this commitment:  
• Professionals assess the safety risks of Microsoft work activities and engage with workers and 
management to implement safe work practices, hazard controls, and training to minimize safety 
risks. 
• New workspaces and existing workspaces are periodically assessed to ensure they’re constructed 
with sound design-for-safety principles and so that controls are implemented effectively.
• Microsoft involves employees and managers in Health and Safety Committees specific to our 
datacenters, retail operations, and our manufacturing facilities.
Learn more about our culture of wellness and balance ?
