Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 30
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
Accessibility 
Microsoft believes there are no limits to what people can achieve. 
Especially when technology reflects the diversity of its users and is 
accessible to all. 
Our commitment and approach Microsoft is committed to designing products and services that can be used by 
people of all abilities.
With over one billion people with disabilities in the world, we’re passionate about 
ensuring that our products and services are designed for people of all abilities. Mic-
rosoft’s Accessibility Standards are a company-wide policy that drives consideration 
for accessibility into every stage of production, including design, development, 
evaluation, and release. 
We’ve found that many of our accessibility-focused innovations and features allow 
us to deliver richer, more flexible experiences for a wider range of users—not just 
those with disabilities. We’re committed to transparency, accountability, and inclu-
sion in our products and our culture, and we’re deeply inspired by the opportunity 
to work with people across the globe to explore what’s possible. 
FY17 Highlights We’re creating applications to be used by people of all abilities, and inclusive hiring 
programs to have a diverse workforce, building products that work for everyone.
Expanding accessibility features
We are committed to delivering technologies that empower people of all abilities 
to do more and have released significant accessibility enhancements in our latest 
products.
Read about accessibility features ?
Driving innovation  
We continue to push the limits of what’s possible to empower people with disabili-
ties through new innovations such as Seeing AI, Windows Eye Control, and Project 
Emma.  
Expanding inclusive hiring programs  
To build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive 
workforce. Our inclusive hiring programs work to make that happen.  
Read about hiring programs ?
