Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37
Our approach Principles People ResourcesPlanet
Water  
At Microsoft, we believe in the sustainable management of the water resources we 
use across our operations. To support this, we’re focused on increasing our under-
standing of water-related risks and impacts to our business and to the communities 
we serve, setting meaningful goals, improving our water efficiency, and advancing 
innovative solutions to water challenges. Partnerships with companies like Ecolab, 
and technology innovations like the free, publicly-available Water Risk Monetizer 
tool, are not just helping Microsoft address its water-related risks—they’re also 
enabling other organizations to understand the true value, risks, and impacts of 
water in their operations. We make our efforts transparent by disclosing our annual 
water use, our water-related risks and governance of water through CDP. Further, 
we collaborate with our top spend production suppliers to achieve 95% reporting of 
water usage also through CDP. 
Learn more about the Water Risk Monetizer tool ?
Ecosystems  
Operationally, we’re investing in the long-term viability of ecosystems in the com-
munities in which we operate. Through AI for Earth, we’re bringing together AI and 
cloud technologies, environmental science, and programmatic resources to empow-
er people and organizations to solve global environmental challenges across water, 
agriculture, biodiversity, and climate change.   
Learn more about AI for Earth ?
Circular economy and waste reduction
Our Puget Sound campus is zero-waste certified, and we’re working to reduce 
overall waste, and to divert at least 90 percent of our operational waste from land-
fills. We design our products, buildings, and operations around resource reduction 
and reuse, enabling a more resource-efficient and productive economy. Microsoft is 
a member of over 150 recycling programs worldwide, covering electronics, batteries, 
and packaging. 
Learn more about our sustainable products ?
FY17 Highlights We’re focusing on water conservation, committing to renewable energy plans, and 
helping to optimize energy use and costs all over the world. 
Support a greener grid 
To support a greener grid, we’ve signed a large renewable energy deal to power 
our Wyoming datacenter entirely by wind. We’ve also made our datacenter’s back-
up generators available to the local grid to boost reliability and capacity.  
Learn about our wind energy purchase ?
Innovating on carbon 
We’ve been carbon neutral since 2012, and we’re still innovating in this space. In 
2017, we bought the first-ever carbon credits generated by US rice farmers—open-
ing a new door in carbon markets for agriculture.   
Learn why we bought carbon offsets ?
