Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11
Principles People Planet ResourcesOur approach
Working together with 
stakeholders  
Aligning our values to those of the 
world
Driving positive impact to both 
business and society
We know that the decisions we make affect our employees, customers, partners, 
shareholders, suppliers, and communities. That’s why we take their voices into ac-
count. Microsoft receives input from millions of people each year—from individual 
customers to policymakers and global human rights specialists. We bring outside 
perspectives into the company and inform our business decisions through a variety 
of feedback channels. And we go beyond formal channels, proactively engaging 
with key stakeholders, advocacy groups, widely recognized experts, CSR rating 
agencies, CSR-focused investors, and many others. We also share our learnings 
and practices thereby generating industry dialogue, informing public debate, and 
advancing greater progress.
The Microsoft Stakeholder Engagement in the Governance of Corporate Social Re-
sponsibility report shows the types of stakeholders we engage, how we engage with 
them, and examples of the results achieved.
?Download the report
Microsoft works to align our CSR commitments and CSR reporting to global stan-
dards. We base our CSR reporting on the Global Reporting Initiatives’ Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines; in 2006, we endorsed the United Nations Global Com-
pact; and we file an annual Communication on Progress implementing the UNGC’s 
10 principles. In addition, we were among the first companies to align our human 
rights work with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and to 
adopt the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. We’re actively engaged 
in supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals and publicly report ways in 
which Microsoft contributes to the global effort to achieve the SDGs.
We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to 
our CSR materiality assessment to define our most significant CSR issues. Using this 
approach, we’ve identified the top issues. Our CSR materiality assessment reflects 
input gathered from our stakeholder engagement processes, consultation with 
Business for Social Responsibility, and other external experts, and consideration of 
the impact that Microsoft’s core businesses have.
Top issues: 
• Applying technology for environmental and social good
• Accessibility  
• Climate change and energy 
• Data privacy and security 
• Empowering communities
• Ethical business practices
• Human capital
• Human rights
• Responsible sourcing and lifecycle impacts 
