Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 32
Our approach Principles Planet ResourcesPeople
Empowering communities
We work to drive greater economic opportunity, inclusion, and em-
powerment of people around the globe.
Our commitment and approach We leverage a broad set of resources in our quest to empower communities and 
individuals. 
Microsoft Philanthropies
We believe technology is a powerful force for good in a rapidly changing world, 
and through Microsoft Philanthropies, we’re working to ensure that everyone has 
access to the economic opportunities it provides. Every day we donate nearly two 
million dollars in products and services to nonprofits and we’ve pledged to donate 
one billion dollars in cloud services to nonprofits and academic researchers over 
three years. Through our YouthSpark grants, we’re working with nonprofits in 58 
countries to increase access to computer science education.   
  
Beyond philanthropy, the company advances community empowerment with com-
mercial offerings and other programs. As a few examples:    
CityNext 
Through CityNext, Microsoft and its partners empower cities and citizens to unlock 
their potential by delivering innovative digital services that can help them lead safer 
and healthier lives, enriched by high-quality education. CityNext helps cities engage 
their citizens, empower city employees, optimize city operations and infrastructure, 
and transform and accelerate innovation and opportunity.
The Microsoft Affordable Access Initiative
The Microsoft Affordable Access Initiative seeks to empower the billions of people 
worldwide who do not have affordable access to the Internet. We believe we can 
spark global change by fueling innovation at the local level. Through partnerships, 
grants, investments, education, and advocacy, this project helps to create technol-
ogy solutions, business models, and policies that help close the digital divide, with 
projects in 17 countries over the last five years. 
Microsoft’s 4Afrika Initiative
Microsoft’s 4Afrika Initiative provides a set of programs to empower African youth, 
entrepreneurs, developers and business and civic leaders by with skill development, 
access to technology, and support for local innovation. 
