Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
Privacy and data security
We recognize privacy as a fundamental human right. We work to pre-
serve our customers’ ability to control their data and make informed 
choices to protect their privacy. 
Our commitment and approach Microsoft’s privacy practices and the way we build our products and services rest on 
six key privacy principles. 
Control  
We put users in control of their privacy with easy-to-use tools and clear choices.  
  
Transparency  
We’re transparent about data collection and use so users can make informed deci-
sions.  
  
Security   
We protect the data that users entrust to us through strong security and encryption. 
  
Legal protections  
We respect local privacy laws and fight for the protection of users’ privacy as a fun-
damental human right.  
  
No content-based targeting   
We don’t use email, chat, files, or other personal content to target ads.  
  
User benefits   
When we do collect data, we use it to benefit you and your experiences.  
FY17 Highlights We’re standing up for users’ rights, allowing them to view and control their activi-
ty; we’re committing to compliance across the cloud; and we’re hiring reknowned 
leaders in the field to guide our way.
Launching privacy dashboard   
In January 2017, Microsoft launched a new web-based privacy dashboard that 
allows users to see and control their activity data across multiple Microsoft services. 
This allows users to view—and choose to clear—the data that Microsoft collects, 
such as browsing history, search history, and location activity, and to manage infor-
mation in the Cortana Notebook, which provides personalized recommendations. 
We will add additional data types and functionality over time.
Privacy shield certification  
In August 2016, Microsoft became the first listed global cloud service provider to 
meet the U.S. Department of Commerce Privacy Shield certification. The EU-US 
Privacy Shield Framework was designed by the U.S. Department of Commerce and 
European Commission to apply EU data protection requirements to govern data 
transmission between Europe and the United States.   
