Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 38
Our approach Principles People ResourcesPlanet
Putting a spotlight on water
Water is a growing focus for us, both internally and externally. With Ecolab, we 
launched the Water Risk Monetizer to help quantify the financial risks of operating 
in water-scarce areas of the world.  
Learn about the Water Risk Monetizer ?
Optimizing energy use in real time 
With the Smart Energy Azure Demonstration platform, consumers can optimize 
energy use, carbon emissions and costs. The tool lets households tailor energy use 
in real time based on when more clean energy is available on the grid.  
Discover the Smart Energy Azure Demonstration platform ?
Sustainability in product packaging  
In FY17 we reduced the weight of product packaging materials by 27 percent and 
decreased packaging related greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent. 
Discover program management for sustainable packaging ?
Enhancing devices for energy efficiency 
The Surface Pro—with a faster CPU and display with accelerated inking—uses less 
energy than Surface Pro 4 and has a longer battery life: up to 13.5 hours.*
Learn how we’re saving energy ?
*Up to 13.5 hours of video playback. Testing conducted by Microsoft in April 2017 using preproduction Intel Core i5, 256GB, 8GB RAM device. Testing consisted of 
full battery discharge during video playback. All settings were default except: Wi-Fi was associated with a network and Auto-Brightness disabled. Battery life varies 
significantly with settings, usage and other factors of the Surface Pro line and extend its battery life.
FY17 Reporting resources Data Factsheet: Environmental Sustainability
Find information on key environmental indicators including greenhouse gas emis-
sions, energy consumption, water consumption and discharge, and waste. 
2017 CDP Climate Change Response
Read our response to the annual CDP climate change questionnaire, covering the 
FY16 reporting period.
2017 CDP Water Response
Read our response to the annual CDP water questionnaire, covering the FY16 re-
porting period.
Microsoft Reports Hub 
Microsoft provides a number of disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re 
meeting our commitments. We consolidate these reports in one place for easy 
reference or download.
2017 GRI Index  
Our 2017 report content contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
Sustainable Devices and Packaging Report
Read about how we embed sustainability requirements directly into the business 
practices of our Devices organization and partners. 
