Microsoft 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22
Our approach People Planet ResourcesPrinciples
Responsible sourcing   
We work to ensure that our suppliers uphold high standards for re-
sponsible business practices and how they treat the people who work 
for them. 
Our commitment and approach We set high standards for our suppliers and collaborate with them to positively im-
pact their workers, the communities in which they operate, and their own business.  
Microsoft has relationships with thousands of suppliers around the globe, spanning 
both hardware suppliers that manufacture our devices and the components that go 
into them and indirect suppliers that provide everything from advertising services to 
building construction and maintenance.   
  
We expect all suppliers who do business with Microsoft to uphold the human rights, 
labor, health and safety, environmental, and business ethics practices prescribed in 
our Supplier Code of Conduct. This code aligns with, and in certain cases exceeds, 
the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC’s) responsible supply chain stan-
dards. The Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all our contracts with suppliers 
and Microsoft Social and Environmental Accountability requirements are also incor-
porated into our contracts with hardware and packaging suppliers.  
  
Since 2005, Microsoft’s Devices and Supply Chain group has operated an indus-
try-leading Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) program to ensure that 
our hardware and packaging suppliers conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct 
and additional device-related requirements for living conditions, safe working prac-
tices, and environmental, health, and safety protection.   
  
Microsoft’s Global Procurement Group created a formal responsible sourcing func-
tion in 2013 to consolidate and enhance its responsible sourcing activities with our 
indirect suppliers.
We advance our responsible sourcing commitments through:  
• Analysis of risks and opportunities
• Assurance and accountability 
• Capacity building
• Creating shared value and advancing the Sustainable Development Goals set by the UN to im-
prove people’s quality of life, protect the environment, and foster equitable growth. 
For details about our approach please visit www.microsoft.com/en-us/responsi-
ble-sourcing.     
