Listening to  
our people  
How we listen to our people
Understanding how our people feel 
about HSBC is vital. It helps us ensure 
we are giving them the right support to 
achieve their potential and to serve our 
customers well. 
We capture the views of our people on  
a range of topics, such as our strategy, 
culture and working environment, through 
our employee survey, Snapshot. Results 
are presented to the Group Management 
Board and relevant executive committees. 
This allows us to take action based on  
the feedback. The adjacent table shows 
selected results from our 2018 survey.
Snapshot survey
We track employee advocacy by asking 
whether our people would recommend 
HSBC as a great place to work. Currently, 
66% of our people would recommend 
HSBC, an increase from 64% in 2017.  
We recognise there is more to do and  
we are aiming to improve this measure  
by three points each year through to  
2020. Analysis in 2018 showed us that 
trust in leadership, career development 
and recognising our people for their 
behaviour and performance drive a 
positive response to this question. 
In late 2018, we expanded our Snapshot 
survey to look at behaviours by asking  
if people see others demonstrating  
our values. The feedback allows us to 
identify areas for improvement and  
take meaningful action in 2019. 
We see that 74% of our people feel able  
to speak up when they see behaviour that 
they consider to be wrong. It tells us that 
our speak-up channels are working, but  
we know there is further work to be done. 
Exchange 
Our Exchange forums provide a place for 
our people to share their open and honest 
views. Typically, these are meetings held 
without an agenda, meaning people can 
discuss what matters most to them. We 
know that when people participate in 
Exchange meetings, they feel more able 
to speak up, have more trust in leadership 
and report higher levels of well-being. 
More than half of our people took part  
in an Exchange meeting during 2018. 
Over 2,000 Exchange meetings were 
arranged to discuss our ambition to  
create the healthiest human system in our 
industry. These involved 30,000 employees 
taking part and sharing what it means for 
them. It is clear from the feedback that we 
need to begin with frank, open and honest 
conversations about what it feels like to 
work at HSBC. We will use this feedback  
to build out action plans in 2019 and ensure 
that the necessary steps are taken to  
make a positive change. 
Selected results from Snapshot survey 
2018 2017
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy 67% 65%
I feel confident about HSBC’s future 75% 72%
I trust the senior leadership in my area 64% 66%
I believe that the senior leadership in my area makes decisions that 
take people like me into consideration 53% 53%
I feel proud to work for HSBC 76% 76%
I would recommend this company as a great place to work 66% 64%
Conditions in my job allow me to be as productive as I can be 65% 58%
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong 74% 74%
I believe HSBC is genuine in its commitment to encourage 
colleagues to speak up 74% 70%
Spotlight: Employee recognition
Embedding a culture that recognises great behaviour is important to us. Our global recognition programme At Our  
Best allows people to recognise colleagues who live up to our values. Employees receive recognition points from their 
colleagues, which can be redeemed against a wide range of goods. In 2018, more than 720,000 recognitions were made  
to a total value of $8.4 million. In 2018, we focused on HSBC sustainability, resulting in over 65,000 employee recognitions. 
Stories were shared as inspirational case studies on our intranet, HSBC NOW. These included how our people were 
championing greener business, supporting a greener environment and volunteering in the local community. 
More than
50%
of our people took part in an Exchange 
meeting during 2018
22 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Employees
