Case study: The first green loan for UK 
commercial buildings
Direct greenhouse gas emissions from buildings in the UK 
account for 19% of the country’s total, and improving the 
energy efficiency within this sector will be key to the UK 
meeting its obligations under the Paris Agreement. That  
is why green and retrofit buildings are critical to cutting 
greenhouse gases. We have been working with Argent,  
a UK property developer, on this issue. In 2018, HSBC UK 
acted as the green coordinator, mandated lead arranger  
and hedging counterparty for the first green loan for UK 
commercial buildings. The £400 million green loan facility, 
which is helping Argent fund the development of two office 
buildings, is compliant with the Loan Market Association’s 
and Asia Pacific Loan Market Association’s Green Loan 
Principles. The offices have been designed with 
sustainability features that will bring the carbon footprint 
down to approximately 50% of similar offices in the country 
and are both targeting BREEAM Outstanding – one of the 
highest levels of green building certification globally.
As part of our drive to deliver growth from areas of strength, we are committed to helping our clients transition  
to a low-carbon economy, supporting the achievement of the SDGs, and supporting positive societal impacts. 
Cumulative progress through 2018
Since the start of 2017, we have achieved $28.5bn of our commitment to provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable financing 
and investment by 2025. A data dictionary, including detailed definitions of contributing activities, may be found on our website 
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact.
Facilitation Financing Investments
We provide advisory services  
to facilitate the flow of capital  
and to provide access to capital  
markets. Products include: green,  
social and sustainable bonds;  
debt capital markets; and equity  
capital markets.
We provide lending for specific  
finance activities. Products include  
project finance (e.g. financing of renewable 
infrastructure projects),  
and green loans (e.g. financing of  
eligible green products).
We provide investments into  
defined socially responsible  
investment (‘SRI’) and  
low-carbon funds.
Cumulative progress*  
($bn)
21.4
Cumulative progress*  
($bn)
5.8
Cumulative progress*  
($bn)
1.3
2018
2017 10.3
11.1 2018
2017 0.5
5.3 2018
2017 0.2
1.1
*  PwC provided limited assurance over progress towards the $100bn sustainable finance commitment as at 31 December 2018 in accordance with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This can be 
found on our website www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact.
Sustainable business continued
Case study: The first green sovereign sukuk
In 2009, the Republic of Indonesia was among the  
first countries to voluntarily set carbon emission targets 
during international negotiations in Copenhagen. Under 
the Paris Agreement, the country pledged to reduce 
emissions by up to 41% by 2030 and recently adopted  
the green sukuk framework to support its commitment. 
To fund climate mitigation and adaption projects in a 
broad range of sectors, as well as to demonstrate its 
commitment to the Paris Agreement, Indonesia issued 
the world’s first green Islamic bond, known as a sukuk, 
for $1.25 billion in February 2018. HSBC acted as joint 
lead manager, joint bookrunner and sole green 
structuring adviser. This transaction represented the  
first sovereign green sukuk, the first international green 
offering by an Asian sovereign and the first Asian 
sovereign green bond focused on Paris Agreement 
ambitions. 
28 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Supporting sustainable growth | Sustainable finance
