Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
We all have a role to play in limiting 
climate change and supporting the 
transition to a low-carbon economy,  
and we are a signatory to the disclosure 
recommendations by the Financial 
Stability Board’s task force. This 
represents our second disclosure  
under the framework. 
Governance
Mitigating climate change is a key 
priority for our senior leadership, with 
sustainable finance metrics included in 
the Group’s strategic priorities. In 2018, 
there were two presentations on 
sustainability to the HSBC Holdings 
Board, two to the Group Audit 
Committee, four to the Group Risk 
Committee, and two to the HSBC Group 
Management Board. Senior leadership 
have engaged with regulators, industry 
associations and non-governmental 
organisations on this topic, such  
as through the Bank of England 
consultation on climate change, the 
Group Chairman’s participation in the 
One Planet Summit and the Group  
Chief Executive’s designation as a  
World Economic Forum climate  
leader. A summarised list of HSBC’s 
sustainability-related memberships is 
available at: www.hsbc.com/our-
approach/measuring-our-impact/
sustainability-memberships.
Strategy
Supporting the transition to a low-carbon 
economy is a key part of HSBC’s 
strategy, and new products have been 
offered to facilitate this, along with a 
pledge to provide $100bn of sustainable 
finance by 2025. To date, we have 
reached $28.5bn of that goal. For further 
information, see pages 26 and 28. We 
recognise many clients across sectors 
are making significant shifts towards the 
low-carbon economy. During 2019, we 
intend to develop new metrics to help 
measure these activities, with an aim to 
publish in next year’s disclosure. 
We believe education of our people  
is crucial on this topic. We gave 
sustainability training to more than 2,300 
employees during 2018 and launched a 
sustainability online learning programme 
for all employees globally, with content 
developed in collaboration with the 
University of Cambridge Institute for 
Sustainability Leadership. 
We report on the emissions of our own 
operations via CDP (formerly the Carbon 
Disclosure Project). This is available, as 
well as other information related to the 
sustainability of our own operations,  
at: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
measuring-our-impact.
Risk management
We are increasingly incorporating 
climate-related risk, both physical and 
transition, into how we manage and 
oversee risks internally and with our 
customers. Climate risk is now included 
as a theme in our ‘Top and emerging 
risks report’ to ensure that it receives 
monthly management oversight via the 
Risk Management Meeting of the Group 
Management Board (‘RMM’) (see page 
30 of our Annual Report and Accounts 
2018). In addition, our Board-approved 
risk appetite statement contains a 
qualitative statement on our approach  
to sustainability, which will be further 
expanded in 2019 to include climate  
risk explicitly. 
We have a number of sustainability risk 
policies covering specific sectors. In 2018, 
we updated our energy policy to limit the 
financing of high-carbon-intensity energy 
projects, while still supporting energy 
customers on their transition to a low-
carbon economy. From the release of the 
new energy policy in April 2018 until the 
end of 2018, HSBC financed no new 
coal-fired power plants. 
Transition risk, in the context of climate 
change, is the possibility that a customer’s 
ability to meet its financial obligations will 
deteriorate due to the global movement 
from a high-carbon to a low-carbon 
economy. HSBC is working to embed 
transition risk into its day-to-day credit risk 
management. The aim is that over time, 
each wholesale counterparty will receive 
a client transition risk rating based on their 
susceptibility to, and ability to manage, 
transition risk. 
We have identified six higher transition 
risk sectors based on their contribution to 
global carbon dioxide emissions. These 
sectors are: oil and gas; building and 
construction; chemicals; automotive; 
power and utilities; and metals and 
mining. Over time we may identify 
additional sectors as having higher 
transition risk depending on a variety  
of factors, including country-level  
carbon dioxide reduction plans per  
the Paris Agreement.
The table below presents our exposure  
to the six higher transition risk sectors. 
These figures capture all lending activity, 
including environmentally responsible 
customers and sustainable financing. 
Further details on our approach to the 
quantification of exposures can be found 
in footnote 37 on page 67 of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2018. This is 
expected to evolve over time as we 
develop new climate-related metrics.
Next steps
HSBC’s TCFD disclosures will continue 
to evolve and expand over time. In line 
with TCFD recommendations, our 
Annual Report and Accounts will start  
to disclose the additional climate 
risk-related metrics relating to our 
portfolio for specific sectors, as the 
availability of sufficient, reliable and 
relevant customer data permits.
Sector
% of total wholesale loans and advances to 
customers and banks in 201837
Oil and gas ? 3.9%
Building and construction ? 3.8%
Chemicals ? 3.9%
Automotive ? 3.4%
Power and utilities ? 3.0%
Metals and mining ? 2.8%
Total ? 20.8%
Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $668bn. 
 
For footnote 37, see page 67 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018.
30 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Supporting sustainable growth | Sustainable finance
