Our approach 
Reporting on material issues in an open  
and transparent way is key to meeting  
the expectations of our stakeholders. 
Our ESG approach
 –We support the global transition to the 
low-carbon economy through our own 
sustainable operations and by supporting 
our customers with their transition.
 –We maintain robust climate-related risk 
management, covering sensitive sectors, 
such as energy, palm oil and forestry.
 –We aim to maintain high standards  
of governance across all geographies.
 –We are committed to protecting our 
customers and communities through 
financial crime risk management and 
cybersecurity due diligence.
Environmental
Social
Governance
Examples:
 – In our ambition to provide $100bn of sustainable financing, 
facilitation and investment by 2025, we have delivered  
a cumulative total of $28.5bn since 2017, with external 
assurance of this number provided by PwC using ISAE 
3000. The full assurance statement is included on page 28.
 –We are a signatory to the Financial Stability Board  
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.  
The second year disclosure is available on page 30.
Examples:
 –During 2018, we concentrated on the completion of the  
final elements of our Global Standards programme, which  
is designed to ensure the management of financial crime 
compliance is embedded in our day-to-day management  
and governance.
 –We are committed to applying both the letter and spirit  
of the law in all the territories in which we operate.
Examples:
 – In this report, we publish customer information for each of 
our global businesses, including spotlights on conduct. This 
includes information on the strengthening of our controls, 
and achieving fair outcomes for customers and culture.
 –Our employee surveys give us invaluable insight into our 
people. Results in 2018 show that 74% feel able to speak  
up when they see behaviour that they consider to be wrong.
 –We are building a diverse workforce and have set a target  
of 30% women holding senior leadership roles by 2020. 
Currently 28% of our senior leaders are women, so while  
we are making progress we recognise there is still room  
for improvement.
Our conduct approach
We recognise that we have a responsibility for good conduct 
through the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and 
behaving in a way that protects financial markets integrity.  
We have therefore implemented a conduct framework 
describing the outcomes that must be delivered across the 
Group and which in turn form a key component of our risk 
management framework. This means that our decisions should 
consider the impact on customers and markets. In addition, 
delivery of the required Group values and conduct behaviours 
continues to be considered in performance management  
for our people across the Group. Our conduct is overseen  
by senior risk and executive committees within each of our 
businesses, functions and HSBC Operations Services and 
Technology. The Board maintains oversight of conduct  
matters through the Group Risk Committee. 
 –We aim to grow in a way that puts the 
customer at the centre.
 –We want to create the healthiest human 
system in our industry. We are working to 
create the right environment so everyone 
can fulfil their potential.
 –We are focusing on diversity and inclusion 
in our workforce, and we are striving to 
put the customer at the heart of everything 
we do.
6 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Overview
