How we listen to our customers
Acting on feedback
Given the direct access our customers have to their relationship managers, issues are usually resolved quickly. However, the 
customer engagement survey highlighted how some customers do not feel their feedback is addressed properly. In response, 
we are improving how we record feedback to ensure this is addressed in a more systematic way. 
We have three global strategic investment programmes underway focused on improving customer engagement and supporting 
sustainable business growth. These programmes, overseen by the GPB executive committee, are in the following table:
We serve the needs of high net worth 
and ultra high net worth individuals and 
families, helping them to grow, manage 
and preserve their personal wealth from 
generation to generation.
Building strong personal relationships 
with customers is critical in private 
banking. Our customer service teams, 
comprising relationship managers, 
investment counsellors, product and 
credit specialists, and wealth planners 
interact with customers on a daily basis, 
listening to and acting on feedback.
Customer satisfaction
In addition to this feedback, we conduct 
an annual customer engagement survey. 
In 2018, more than 800 customers 
shared their views on our people, 
products and services. Our overall 
satisfaction score fell from 8.4 to 7.6 
(based on a scale of 1 to 10), falling  
short of our threshold target of 8.0. This 
decline corresponded with a decline in 
our customers’ perception of whether  
we offer value for money, falling from 
91% to 76%.
However, our customers continue  
to be satisfied with our relationship 
management teams, scoring them  
8.4 out of 10, while 86% strongly agree 
that our portfolio reviews meet their 
financial needs, by providing a score  
of either 4 or 5 (on a scale of -5 to 5). 
Our Global Private Banking 
customers 
The three themes that have emerged 
from this survey, which we need to 
address are: 
 –We need to improve perceptions of  
the quality of investment advice and 
products, which is falling short of 
expectations. 
 –We need to keep pace with increasing 
customer expectations. We have been 
slow to implement a global digital 
proposition and our customers have 
experienced a higher number of 
instances than is acceptable where  
the service they have received from  
us left them feeling annoyed or  
let down. 
 –We need to change outdated 
processes. Some of our customers  
feel our processes and procedures are 
cumbersome, and as a consequence 
we may not be easy to deal with.
Area of focus Action
Advisory services We are enhancing our advisory proposition through investment in technology that provides more sophisticated 
portfolio construction and risk analytics capabilities. This should help us to improve our investment processes 
and provide more proactive, well-informed advice. To support this, we increased the number of customer-
facing investment professionals and product specialists by 17% in 2018, and plan to make further investments 
in 2019, including a comprehensive training programme.
Digital We are aware that our investment in digital wealth management capabilities has lagged behind those of  
our competitors. This has had an adverse impact on customer satisfaction. In 2018, we developed online  
and app-based capabilities that went live initially in the UK in February 2019 and which will be introduced  
to all our key markets during the year. A programme of continual enhancement will help ensure that these 
services remain competitive in the marketplace.
Global platform 
replacement
We are rationalising the number of IT platforms, replacing legacy systems with a core platform that houses  
a set of strategic solutions. This will facilitate global access to our flagship products and propositions, bringing 
a consistent customer experience across our main booking centres. The core platform is live in four locations, 
including Switzerland and the UK, and is scheduled to go live in Asia towards the end of 2019.
7.6
Overall satisfaction, adversely impacted by 
the perception of value for money (2017: 8.4)
16 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Customers
