Our Commercial Banking 
customers 
How we listen to our customers
Acting on feedback
We are committed to improving customer 
satisfaction for all our business customers, 
from start-ups to large corporates.
We have introduced additional governance 
to embed a customer-led approach into 
our decision making. In 2018, we created 
the new role of Global Head of Customer 
Experience, and appointed customer 
champions in key business areas. 
New tools have been introduced to help 
us understand our customers. These 
include customer journey mapping, which 
aims to take a holistic approach to assess 
customers’ current experiences and 
design ideal ones. More than 350 of our 
people globally have been trained in its 
use. New artificial intelligence (‘AI’) tools 
used by our insight and analytics teams 
also allow us to scrutinise more open-
ended feedback from customers quickly 
and accurately.
Customer satisfaction
We use syndicated research, feedback 
from social media, and operational data 
to help us identify what areas are most 
important to our customers, and where 
our performance could be improved. 
Areas of focus include the ease and 
speed of the account opening process, 
our efficiency in dealing with queries  
and our range of products. 
We still have some way to go to achieve 
our ambitions, but our rank position against 
competitors for customer satisfaction either 
remained flat or improved compared with 
last year in seven of our eight key markets.1
Moments of Truth
In 2018, we fully embedded our Moments 
of Truth programme, surveys which allow 
us to continually capture feedback from 
customers about interactions we know are 
important to them. We have surveyed over 
18,000 customers across 40 markets and 
have driven improvements through more 
than 100 actions taken to address the 
feedback. Key performance metrics across 
all these key events, such as opening  
an account, calling our contact centres, 
setting up internet banking, applying for 
credit or changing relationship manager, 
have improved in 2018. We actively 
review the interactions we measure to 
make sure we continue to focus on the 
issues that matter most to our customers. 
Listening to customers and acting on their feedback has helped us to drive improvements to the customer experience.  
Here are some of the main issues raised and how we responded.
Area of focus Action
Improving the  
ease and speed of 
account opening
In the UK, we created a new welcome journey for small businesses. This resulted in improved customer satisfaction 
and increased use of self-service digital tools. In France, we sped up the opening of accounts by simplifying the 
process. In Singapore, new customers are now assigned a single point of contact to help them. A customised video 
also introduces customers to their service team and helps them to get started with online banking. 
Customer query 
handling
We want to make sure our people are fully equipped to answer customer enquiries efficiently and effectively. We 
provided additional training for customer service managers in our Global Trade and Receivables Finance business  
in Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as for our HSBCnet telephone teams to improve their technical and soft skills.  
In the UK, a query escalation process was introduced to improve our ability to resolve queries quickly and accurately. 
Easy channels  
to communicate 
feedback
In order to help make sure our products and services meet customers’ needs, we have more than 200 customers  
as active members of online panels in the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, Australia, UAE, Mexico and the US. These 
provide fast feedback, allowing us to test changes directly with customers. In 2018, they helped us redesign our online 
banking platform and provided input into developments around integration of third-party accounting software.
Case study: Customer-centric 
payments review
A customer-centric review was 
launched to improve the efficiency  
of our payment processing across 
Asia-Pacific. We created a smoother 
authentication process through  
a one-time password issued  
to customers by text message.  
This avoided three authentication 
questions, which customers told  
us were difficult to use. Customer 
queries are now handled faster by 
giving wider access to the payment 
systems to our employees. These 
changes contributed towards a  
70% reduction of payments-related 
complaints, from their highest point  
in 2017, and a fall in average call 
handling time from 11 to seven minutes.
1.  Eight key markets: Hong Kong, UK, Pearl River Delta, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and UAE. Customer satisfaction metrics for Pearl River Delta will 
be available from 2019. In Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico and UAE, CMB performance in 2017 is based on the bank that the customer defines as their 
main bank, while CMB performance for these markets in 2018 is based on the bank that the customer defines as the most important. Surveys are based on a 
relevant and representative subset of the market. Data provided by RFi Group, Kantar and another third-party provider.
12 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Customers
