Ensuring strong  
corporate governance  
We are committed to high standards of 
corporate governance across the Group. 
A comprehensive statement on our 
corporate governance practices is set 
out on pages 152 to 213 of our Annual 
Report and Accounts 2018.
The role of the Board
The Board of HSBC Holdings plc aims to 
promote the Group’s long-term success, 
deliver sustainable value to shareholders 
and promote a culture of openness and 
debate. Led by the Group Chairman, the 
Board sets the Group’s strategy and risk 
appetite. It also approves capital and 
operating plans for achieving strategic 
objectives on the recommendation  
of management. 
The majority of the Board comprises 
independent non-executive Directors. 
Their role is to challenge and scrutinise 
the performance of management and  
to help develop proposals on strategy. 
They also review the performance of 
management in meeting agreed goals 
and objectives and monitor the Group’s 
risk profile. During 2018, the Board 
reduced the number of Board committees 
from seven to five. These changes created 
clearer and stronger lines of authority and 
accountability, which enable the Board to 
devote more time to priority areas.
Board diversity 
In 2018, the Board’s diversity and inclusion 
policy was updated to help ensure HSBC 
and its various stakeholders continue  
to benefit from a Board that includes 
Directors from a range of different 
backgrounds and whose ethnicity, 
experience, age, geographical provenance 
and gender more closely reflect the 
diversity of our customers and the 
communities that we serve. The Board 
diversity and inclusion policy is available at 
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/corporate-
governance/board-responsibilities. 
  For further details on our diversity and 
inclusion efforts, see page 24.
Shareholder engagement 
We welcome enquiries from individuals 
on matters relating to their shareholdings 
and HSBC’s business. Communication 
with shareholders is given a high priority 
by the Board, and there is regular 
dialogue with institutional investors. 
Directors are also encouraged to develop 
an understanding of the views of major 
shareholders. As Senior Independent 
Director, Jonathan Symonds is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns 
that cannot be resolved or for which 
normal channels would be inappropriate. 
He may be contacted via the Group 
Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, 
London E14 5HQ.
Extensive information about HSBC and 
its activities is provided to shareholders 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, 
the Strategic Report and the Interim 
Report as well as at www.hsbc.com.
Corporate governance regulatory 
changes 
In July 2018, the Financial Reporting 
Council published the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘Code’) together  
with the revised Guidance on Board 
Effectiveness. The new Code places 
greater emphasis on how the Board 
considers the interests of all stakeholders 
in its discussions and decision making, 
and promotes a strong internal culture. 
We see the new Code as an opportunity 
to further enhance our existing 
stakeholder engagement, ensuring that 
the business as a whole can continue  
to develop constructive and considerate 
relationships. We aim to include details  
of this in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2019. 
 
Sustainability governance 
While the Board has oversight of the 
Group’s sustainability and ESG initiatives, 
the Group Management Board is 
accountable for their delivery, reflected in 
sustainability targets within the long-term 
incentive scorecards for executive 
Directors, and selected scorecards of 
Group Managing Directors. The 2017 
long-term incentive scorecards of 
executive Directors incentivise achieving  
a cumulative financing and investment 
target of $30bn to $34bn for developing 
clean energy and lower-carbon 
technologies and projects that contribute 
to the delivery of the Paris Agreement and 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
over the three-year period to 31 December 
2020. The 2018 long-term incentive 
scorecards of executive Directors include 
an ESG rank measure incentivising 
achievement of ‘Outperformer’ 
Sustainalytics rating.
As discussed in our TCFD disclosure on 
page 30, the Board receives a half-yearly 
sustainability update, covering topics such 
as progress against the three sustainability 
pillars and non-governmental organisation 
(‘NGO’) engagement. This helps ensure 
our sustainability agenda remains 
prominent at the most senior levels. 
Our Climate Business Council coordinates 
sustainable finance activities across the 
Group, supported by various working 
groups within global businesses, 
functions and regions. An ESG Steering 
Committee, chaired by the Group Chief of 
Staff, leads our approach on ESG topics, 
including considerations related to 
external disclosure and materiality. 
A climate risk working group was 
established in 2018, which seeks to 
implement the objectives of the Climate 
Business Council through the development 
of policy and limit frameworks designed to 
protect the Group from climate-related 
risks (including transition risk and physical 
risks) that are outside risk appetite. The 
Group Risk Committee is responsible for 
overseeing enterprise risks that have an 
impact on the Group, including climate risk.
See page 30 for our TCFD disclosure.
40 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
A responsible business culture 
