Our Global Banking and 
Markets customers 
How we listen to our customers
We provide financial services and 
products to governments, companies 
and institutional clients around the world. 
Listening and reacting to customers  
is one of the most important ways of 
improving our business. One of the 
primary ways we do this is through our 
annual customer engagement survey. 
Customer satisfaction
In this survey, 94% of our customers felt 
our overall service and our commitment 
to their business either improved or 
stayed the same in 2018. Each aspect  
of the survey is carefully reviewed to 
consider which actions can be taken  
to improve customer perceptions of  
us and the service we offer. 
One area where customers were 
dissatisfied was our account opening 
requirements and how we update 
customer information. Some customers 
felt that these were too cumbersome  
and time-consuming. 
As a first step, our credit and lending  
team is rolling out a digital credit platform, 
a service that provides customers with 
standardised, automatically populated 
credit documentation that can be signed 
digitally. This service, now available in the 
UK, has reduced the time it takes for our 
customers to receive financing. 
We are simplifying our know your 
customer (‘KYC’) questionnaire and 
worked with compliance to streamline 
the KYC aspect of customer onboarding. 
This improved our risk management 
process and reduced verification times 
by 25%. We are also streamlining how 
Acting on feedback
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer survey results
63%
of customers considered  
HSBC as one of their  
top three banks in 2018 
(2017: 64%)
46%
of customers felt our people are 
more likely to initiate a strategic 
conversation than 12 months ago 
94%
of customers felt our service 
had either stayed the same  
or improved in 2018 
(2017: 96%)
95%
of customers felt they had  
a good or very good rapport
with GB&M
Responding quickly and efficiently to customers’ feedback 
and complaints helps to build trust. We are placing a strong 
emphasis on this, and reviewing the formal complaints 
process in place for customers across all of the GB&M 
business lines to improve its effectiveness. 
New tools have been adopted to better record complaints and 
track their resolution. In November 2018, we created a new 
global team to look specifically at customer experience. With 
a broad mandate, it focuses on careful analysis of feedback 
and rapid resolution of complaints. 
One of its immediate tasks is to consolidate customer 
feedback and complaints across multiple business lines, 
geographies and products. This should help us improve the 
customer experience, and identify any areas for collaboration 
or early detection of potential issues.
Customer experience meetings are now scheduled regularly 
with our top management. These bring together senior people 
to look closely at customer concerns and produce consistent, 
business-wide solutions. 
we collect and store KYC information, 
technology solutions and data access. 
We reduced onboarding times for our 
corporate customer base by 8% by the 
end of 2018. There is still a lot to do and 
our target is to reduce this by a further 
20% by 2020. 
For more information on some of the 
ways we have made it easier and safer 
for customers to access our services 
digitally, see page 18.
Case study: Improving payments processing 
In 2018, we were approached by a potential customer  
who was looking for a new banking provider to resolve 
problems they had faced regarding delayed payments. 
Staff salary payments had been repeatedly delayed, due  
to a screening process that banks are required to carry  
out to comply with regulations. This was an increasing 
reputational risk for the firm. When we looked into the 
problem for them, it focused our attention on similar  
issues faced by our existing customers. Not only did  
we win this firm as a new customer, we also proposed  
to take a proactive approach to screening payments  
for existing clients, which notifies customers of any  
delays and obtains additional information needed to 
identify and release blocked payments within a target  
of 48 hours. By making sure we collect information on 
regular beneficiaries upfront and use it effectively, we have 
significantly reduced payment delays for our customers. 
14 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Customers
