We recognise we have a responsibility  
to deliver fair outcomes for our retail 
customers and behave in a way that 
protects financial market integrity. We 
manage this through a range of activities, 
from working to ensure products are 
designed fairly to endeavouring to  
meet customers’ financial needs. 
We have put in place clear policies, 
frameworks and governance to protect  
our customers. Our conduct and risk 
frameworks describe the outcomes that 
must be delivered across the Group. In 
performance management, we consider 
whether behaviour is in line with our 
values. Conduct is overseen by senior risk 
and executive committees, while the Board 
maintains oversight of conduct matters 
through the Group Risk Committee. 
Product design and fair value 
Good product design helps provide the 
right outcomes for our customers. We 
provide training through the Product 
Management Academy. To date, more 
than 1,000 of our people have completed 
training on topics including customer 
insight, customer-focused design,  
making communications simple, product 
development, management oversight  
and governance. 
Customer insight is the foundation of  
the design process, so we work with 
customer research groups to co-create 
solutions. This involves checking in  
with customer panels and user labs 
throughout the process to understand 
customer reaction, so we can dynamically 
adapt designs to meet changing needs. 
In Mexico, we launched our Stilo  
banking service, which includes a money 
management tips app, filling a gap in 
service that our customers had told us 
about. In Hong Kong, we worked with 
more than 3,000 customers to design  
and test our PayMe services and features 
before launching them, including peer-to-
peer payments for customers and 
non-customers. PayMe reached a 
milestone of approximately 1.5 million 
users in 2018. 
The range of products offered in our 
markets is managed globally. Any newly 
developed product goes through a 
review process with global oversight for 
different or complex products. During 
this process, products are tested to help 
ensure they are suitable and offer fair 
value to customers.
Ongoing monitoring is also a critical 
component of our product governance 
programme. Regular in-depth reviews 
recognise a product or service may 
become unsuitable over a period of time, 
whether it is after a significant event  
or following an accumulation of  
multiple changes.
Product design key principles:
Our products should remain relevant  
in each country they are offered.
We offer a consistent, simple and 
carefully selected range of products.
We act on feedback from customers  
to provide better and more accessible 
products/services. 
Products that no longer meet our  
high standards or customer needs  
are withdrawn from sale.
We also conduct regular product reviews 
and fair value assessments in each of the 
markets we operate in, to help ensure we 
deliver fair value.
Pricing key principles:
All products and services must meet  
a minimum set of design standards.
We carry out regular comparisons  
of HSBC pricing with those of local 
competitors and with our own fair  
value standards, considering the total 
charges and features of a product.
We review the usage levels of product 
features to assess if customers’ 
behaviours and responses demonstrate 
they are receiving value.
Oversight and governance of our  
fair value assessments and product 
safety is provided by the Global Wealth 
Management Oversight Committee, 
chaired by the Global Head of Wealth 
Products, and the Retail Banking 
Management Committee, chaired  
by the Global Head of Retail Products. 
The RBWM Global Incentive Committee, 
which reports to the Chief Executive 
Officer of RBWM, oversees front-line 
employee incentives.
Meeting our customers’ needs
In order to meet customers’ needs 
effectively, we have robust oversight of 
the sales process, including reviewing 
the suitability of the products we offer, 
sales quality monitoring, and how we 
incentivise our staff.
We consider our customers’ financial 
needs and personal circumstances to 
assist us in offering suitable product 
recommendations. This is achieved 
through: 
 –a globally consistent methodology  
to rate the riskiness of investment 
products, which is customised for  
local regulatory requirements;
 –a robust customer risk profiling 
methodology to help assess 
customers’ financial objectives, 
attitude towards risk, financial ability  
to bear investment risk and their 
knowledge and experience;
 –goal projection tools and calculators  
to help customers plan for their future 
in line with their overall investment 
objectives; and 
 –consistent global advisory standards to 
follow when we make recommendations 
to our customers, while taking into 
account local regulations.
From a service perspective, our goal 
is to empower our people to resolve 
issues. In the UK, we embedded a 
programme to give front-line employees 
a means to raise and contribute towards 
solving customer issues and to escalate 
Spotlight: Conduct
10 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Customers | Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers
