We believe that the global economy  
is better served by customers being  
part of the regulated financial system.  
In support of this, we carried out  
a number of initiatives in 2018 to  
increase access to financial services.  
Our approach to financial inclusion  
is focused on engaging with partners  
to raise industry standards; improving 
accessibility of products and services; 
and investing in educational content. 
We acknowledge that increasing 
financial inclusion is a continuing  
effort, and there are a number of 
initiatives we will be focusing on  
in 2019. These include: 
 – implementing the UK Finance Financial 
Abuse Code of Practice, which aims to 
increase awareness for victims, potential 
victims, families and colleagues to 
recognise the signs of financial abuse 
and to offer support where needed; and 
 – launching our Age Friendly Banking 
initiative in Hong Kong to assist seniors 
to better understand key concepts  
and services such as third-party carer 
banking, digital banking and scam 
prevention. 
Supporting financial inclusion  
We work with trade associations, 
governments and regulators to identify 
barriers to financial inclusion and find 
ways to improve standards and share 
best practice. For example, in 2018: 
 –We chaired trade body UK Finance’s 
Financial Inclusion and Capability 
working group and were involved with its 
Vulnerability sub-group; we were part of 
a cross-Whitehall working group, which 
brings together the government, banks 
and policymakers to develop strategies 
on how UK banks can safely transfer 
We believe that in order for people to 
access and make the most of financial 
services they need to understand how  
to use them effectively to establish and 
grow their wealth. To deliver this in 2018:
 –We delivered more than 1,000 financial 
well-being seminars in the US, UK, 
Mexico, Singapore and Australia, 
reaching more than 26,000 people 
including more than 2,100 HSBC 
funds to high risk and sanctioned 
jurisdictions; and we provided 
organisational and staffing support, 
including the chairmanship, to the  
UK Financial Inclusion Commission.
 – In Asia-Pacific we hosted an insurance 
industry event as part of the annual Out 
Leadership summit, where we shared 
changes made in our business to 
recognise modern family relationships, 
and encouraged the industry to 
become more inclusive in their 
products and services. 
employees, as part our RBWM’s  
Your Financierge service.
 –We began refreshing the content we 
share on our public websites, including 
introducing guides to modern money 
on our UK site. 
 –We launched an online platform in the 
US with EVERFI to help our customers 
and communities better understand 
day-to-day money management and 
preparing for the future. 
We believe that diversity helps us to fulfil 
our potential. We apply this philosophy to 
our products and channels to help ensure 
they are inclusive and accessible for 
individuals and SMEs. To deliver this in 2018:
 –We improved our digital accessibility in 
10 of our retail banking markets, so that 
more customers can access online 
banking. We also made physical services 
more accessible by starting a ‘barrier-free 
banking’ programme in Hong Kong to 
upgrade our branch and ATM networks. 
 –We offered low- or no-fee banking 
services in selected markets for 
individuals who may not qualify for our 
products. These services are provided 
through basic accounts or waivers of 
minimum balance requirements. 
 –We expanded the beneficiary definitions 
of our life insurance policies in Hong 
Kong to recognise a broader range of 
family relationships such as stepchildren 
and same-sex couples. 
 –We helped people experiencing cognitive 
decline access and maintain banking 
services through our Independence 
Service initiative in the UK, and through 
our new Living with Dementia 
programme in Hong Kong. 
 –We expanded the use of third-party 
alliances in Mexico so our customers 
now have 10% more locations where 
they can deposit cash and pay bills. 
 –We announced a £12bn fund to lend to 
SMEs in the UK, and continued to be a 
shareholder in BGF Group plc (‘BGF’), 
formerly the Business Growth Fund. 
BGF provides patient equity capital to 
support SMEs across the UK and 
Ireland. In 2018, the Canadian Business 
Growth Fund, which we helped to 
promote and in which we are an 
investor, made its first investments.   
Engagement with partners
Access to financial education content
Access to products and services
44 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
A responsible business culture
