We have a responsibility to invest in  
the long-term prosperity of our global 
communities. In 2018, we contributed 
$105 million to charities and non-profit 
organisations running community 
projects around the world. These 
initiatives are run through partnerships 
that support responsible business, and 
help develop employability and financial 
capability skills. We also help our leaders 
across our network support important 
local causes. 
Helping to build future skills
In a world of rapidly changing technology 
and wealth inequality, new skills are 
needed to succeed. That is why we are 
focusing on increasing employability and 
financial capability for our customers, 
employees and communities.
In 2018, we delivered more than  
1,000 Your Financierge financial well-
being seminars in the US, UK, Mexico, 
Singapore and Australia, reaching  
over 26,000 people including over 2,100 
HSBC employees. We also ran three 
international campaigns, sharing money 
management challenges and tips. 
As part of our contribution to charities 
and non-profit organisations, we  
donated more than $8.9 million to 
partnerships focused on increasing 
financial capability, which are projected 
to benefit more than 850,000 people. Our 
people volunteered with many of these 
initiatives. In recognition of our work 
improving financial literacy, our Hong 
Kong business won a Financial Education 
Our approach to partnerships
Committed to  
communities 
Champion award from the Investor 
Education Centre. We donated more 
than $27 million to charities and  
non-profit organisations to support 
partnerships focused on increasing 
employability, which are projected to 
benefit more than 400,000 people. 
To support the important conversation 
on the future of work in a more 
automated society, three of our senior 
leaders joined steering committees for 
the World Economic Forum’s System 
Initiative on Shaping the Future of 
Education, Gender and Work. 
 For more information on our how we support our 
employees to develop their skills, see page 25.
 For more information on how we are increasing 
customer financial capability, see pages 11 and 44.
Supporting supply chain 
sustainability
We provide support for sustainable supply 
chains through charitable programmes in 
certain sectors. Here we report on our 
progress against these initiatives.
Textiles and apparel
In 2015, greenhouse gas emissions  
from textiles production totalled 1.2 
billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which 
was more than those of all international 
flights and maritime shipping combined.1 
We have established partnerships  
with the Apparel Impact Institute,  
WWF and WaterAid to improve the 
environmental and social sustainability  
of the apparel supply chain. These are 
focusing on mill, leather tannery and 
factory improvements in China, India, 
Bangladesh and Vietnam. With our 
support, we expect to help 850 facilities 
to improve their environmental and  
social impact by the end of 2020. In  
2018, through our support for WWF 
in China, 113 supplier companies  
were engaged directly to improve 
sustainability standards. 
Palm oil
To help address the sustainability 
impacts of palm oil production, we 
launched a new programme with  
WWF in 2018 to deal with the challenges 
related to the supply and demand for 
certified sustainable palm oil in Asia. This 
programme will support research and 
collaboration to remove barriers to flows 
of certified sustainable palm oil. It will 
aim to demonstrate what is possible in 
the shift to sustainability in the sector,  
in line with our no deforestation, peat  
or exploitation commitment. For more 
information on our engagement on  
palm oil, see page 29.
1.  Ellen MacArthur Foundation, A new textiles 
economy: Redesigning fashion’s future.  
(2017, www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/
publications).
Case study: Building financial capability with 
the Mann Deshi Foundation
Mann Deshi was set up by Chetna Gala Sinha as the first 
rural bank in India to provide a space for women to save, and 
get affordable and easy access to credit. Since 1996, more 
than 90,000 women have set up accounts with over $13 
million in deposits. The Mann Deshi Foundation was also set 
up to supplement the bank by providing access to financial 
education, skills and a support network for rural women. 
We have been working with the Mann Deshi Foundation 
since 2006, supporting it to deliver training to rural women 
on making and managing money. The focus has been on 
delivering meaningful outcomes. Through HSBC-supported 
programmes, more than 40% of participants had improved 
levels of financial capability, over 20% of participants had 
set up their own new businesses, and over 60% 
experienced an improved standard of living.
>1.2 million
people projected to benefit from financial 
capability and employability programmes 
funded in 2018
34 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Supporting sustainable growth
