This ESG Update may contain projections, 
estimates, forecasts, targets, opinions, 
prospects, results, returns and forward-
looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, results of operations, 
capital position, strategy and business of 
the Group, which can be identified by the 
use of forward-looking terminology such 
as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expect’, 
‘anticipate’, ‘project’, ‘estimate’, ‘seek’, 
‘intend’, ‘target’ or ‘believe’ or the 
negatives thereof or other variations 
thereon or comparable terminology 
(together, ‘forward-looking statements’), 
including the strategic priorities and any 
financial, investment and capital targets 
described herein. Any such forward-
looking statements are not a reliable 
indicator of future performance, as they 
may involve significant stated or implied 
assumptions and subjective judgements, 
which may or may not prove to be 
correct. There can be no assurance that 
any of the matters set out in forward-
looking statements are attainable, will 
actually occur or will be realised or  
are complete or accurate. Certain of the 
assumptions and judgements upon which 
forward-looking statements regarding 
strategic priorities and targets are based 
are discussed under ‘Targeted Outcomes: 
Basis of Preparation’, available separately 
from this ESG Update at www.hsbc.com. 
The assumptions and judgements may 
prove to be incorrect and involve known 
and unknown risks, uncertainties, 
contingencies and other important 
factors, many of which are outside  
the control of the Group. Actual 
achievements, results, performance or 
other future events or conditions may 
differ materially from those stated, implied 
and/or reflected in any forward-looking 
statements due to a variety of risks, 
uncertainties and other factors (including 
without limitation those that are referable 
to general market conditions or regulatory 
changes). Any such forward-looking 
statements are based on the beliefs, 
expectations and opinions of the Group  
Additional information
at the date the statements are made, and 
the Group does not assume, and hereby 
disclaims, any obligation or duty to 
update, revise or supplement them if 
circumstances or management’s beliefs, 
expectations or opinions should change. 
For these reasons, recipients should not 
place reliance on, and are cautioned 
about relying on, any forward-looking 
statements. No representations or 
warranties, expressed or implied, are 
given by or on behalf of the Group as to 
the achievement or reasonableness of any 
projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, 
prospects or returns contained herein.
Additional detailed information 
concerning important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially 
from this ESG Update is available in our 
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 for  
the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018 
filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (‘SEC’) on Form 20-F on  
20 February 2019.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This ESG Update contains non-GAAP 
financial information. The primary 
non-GAAP financial measures we  
use are presented on an ‘adjusted 
performance’ basis, which is computed 
by adjusting reported results for the 
period-on-period effects of foreign 
currency translation differences and 
significant items, which distort  
period-on-period comparisons. 
Significant items are those items  
that management and investors  
would ordinarily identify and consider 
separately when assessing performance 
in order to better understand the 
underlying trends in the business.
Reconciliations between non-GAAP 
financial measurements and the  
most directly comparable measures 
under GAAP are provided in our 2018 
Form 20-F and the corresponding 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures document, each of which  
are available at www.hsbc.com.
Non-GAAP financial information
46 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
