Group Chief Executive’s 
review
If we can live up to our wider societal obligations, then we believe  
we will materially improve all aspects of HSBC’s performance and 
safeguard the future of the organisation for generations to come.
John Flint Group Chief Executive
There is much in here that we can be proud  
of. Employee satisfaction is up, reflecting an 
improvement in the way we engage with and 
support our people. We have improved the way  
we listen to customers and acted on that feedback, 
and we have simplified our governance structures 
to create clearer and stronger lines of authority.  
We have also accelerated our support for the 
low-carbon transition.
Yet for all our strides, there are areas where we can 
and must do better. Our senior leadership teams 
are still not diverse enough. Many of our customers 
still find it too difficult to bank with us. On conduct, 
we have more to do in adapting to changing 
societal expectations. 
Addressing these aspects of our performance  
will take time. There are no quick or easy fixes.  
But where there is work to be done, we will do  
so with urgency, conviction and clear purpose. 
As Group Chief Executive, my overriding priority  
is to create stronger relationships with all our 
stakeholders – and it is part of our ambition to 
create what we call the healthiest human system  
in our industry. If we can do that, and live up to  
our wider societal obligations, then we believe  
we will materially improve all aspects of HSBC’s 
performance and safeguard the future of the 
organisation for generations to come. 
All of you reading this are part of that ambition. 
Your feedback and your views are important to  
us. We will continue to take them into account,  
and to listen, learn and act. 
I hope you find the report useful.  
John Flint
Group Chief Executive
Living up to our wider societal obligations  
has always been part of HSBC’s culture and 
identity. Our success over 154 years has been 
founded on our ability to build strong and trusted 
relationships not just with our customers, but  
with the communities and other stakeholders  
we serve all over the world. 
We recognise that there have been times, 
particularly in the recent past, where we have 
failed to meet the standards expected of us.
Societal expectations are changing, and investors 
are placing increasing importance on the wider 
impact businesses have on people and the planet. 
So over the past few years we have taken steps  
to improve all aspects of our non-financial 
performance, and to live up to the duty of  
care we have to all our stakeholders today. 
This ESG Update – the fourth we have produced 
– shines a light on our progress. It covers all the 
usual areas, from corporate governance and our 
environmental impact, to customer satisfaction  
and our approach to conduct. We are continuing  
to meet our reporting obligations under the terms 
of the UN Global Compact and renewing our 
commitment to the Compact’s principles.
“ Our success over 154 years has been  
founded on our ability to build strong  
and trusted relationships.”
2 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Overview
