Employee photos: All the photos on the inside pages of this report, with the exception  
of the Group Chief Executive profile picture on page 2, were taken by people working  
for HSBC in locations including the UK, Hong Kong, Bangladesh and India. Many more 
employees across the Group’s international network have contributed to HSBC Now 
Photo, an ongoing project that allows them to demonstrate their talent as photographers 
and show the diversity of the world around them.
Cover: Our global marketing campaign explores how HSBC helps people prosper.  
The Group’s iconic hexagon becomes a lens through which to look at the world,  
showing how we help individuals, businesses and communities to grow and flourish.  
This includes our commitment to the development of renewable energy sources that  
can support the global transition to a low-carbon economy. We have pledged to  
provide $100 billion in sustainable financing and investments by 2025.
Inside front cover: Moraine Lake, near Banff National Park, Canada. This picture  
was taken by Harsha Aruru, who works for HSBC in New York as an IT developer.
Page 7: Popinjays restaurant, Hong Kong. This picture was taken by Terry Tam,  
who works for HSBC in Hong Kong as an IT developer.
Pages 20/21: Pottery, district of Sylhet in Bangladesh. This picture was taken  
by Talukdar Noman Anwar, who works for HSBC as Head of Communications  
in Bangladesh.
Page 26: Thrunton Woods, Northumberland UK. This picture was taken by  
Ciara Jennings, who works for HSBC in the UK’s digital technology team.
Page 36: Mont Blanc range in France. This picture was taken by Jo Eaton,  
who works for the HSBC UK Insurance department.
Page 45: The Corridor of Life, the Chowmohalla Palace in Hyderabad in India. This picture  
was taken by Alok Kumar Tripathy, who works for HSBC’s HR Operations team in India.
Inside back cover: Cherry blossoms, South Korea, Gangwon province, Hwacheon 
Aquatic Resort. This picture was taken by Nicole Yau Suk Yin, who works for the 
department of Underwriting and Claims for HSBC Hong Kong.
Photography © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2018
All rights reserved 
No part of this publication may  
be reproduced, stored in a retrieval 
system, or transmitted, in any form or  
by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording, or otherwise, 
without the prior written permission of 
HSBC Holdings plc. 
Published by Global Finance,  
HSBC Holdings plc, London 
Designed and produced  
by Superunion, London  
www.superunion.com
Useful links
In this section, we have provided further 
information on HSBC’s approach to ESG 
issues. It contains links to further content, 
policies and topics discussed in this 
document. Please visit the links to obtain  
a more in-depth understanding of our 
initiatives covering the ESG issues that  
may be of interest to you.
For further information on our approach and 
measuring our impact, see www.hsbc.com/
our-approach/measuring-our-impact. On  
this area of our website you will find latest 
reports, statements and policies, including:
 –Communication on progress to UN 
Principles for Responsible Investment
 –Communication on progress to UN 
Principles for Sustainable Insurance
 –Environmental, Social and Governance 
Update, April 2017
 –Environmental, Social and Governance 
Supplement, November 2017
 –Environmental policy
 –Health and safety policy
 –HSBC Holdings plc Board diversity  
and inclusion policy
 –HSBC’s $100bn sustainable financing and 
investment commitment – data dictionary
 –PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP – Assurance 
report for 2018 – sustainable finance
 –Remuneration practices and governance
 –Reporting guidelines – carbon emissions
 –Statement on human rights
 –Statement on climate change
 –Statement on conduct
 –Statement on public policy engagement
 –Strategic Report 2018
 –Sustainability memberships
 –UK Gender Pay Gap 2017/2018
 –Whistleblowing statement
Other relevant website links include:
 –Financial Crime Risk policies (including 
anti-money laundering, sanctions, and 
anti-bribery and corruption):  
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/financial-crime-risk/financial-
crime-risk-policies
 –HSBC Centre of Sustainable Finance:  
www.sustainablefinance.hsbc.com
 –Corporate governance (including our 
governance framework and board 
responsibilities): www.hsbc.com/our-
approach/corporate-governance
 –Modern Slavery Act statement:  
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/modern-slavery-act
 –Sustainability Risk policies (including 
Equator Principles):  
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/sustainability-risk
 –Green and sustainability bond frameworks 
and impact reports:  
www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-
investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds
 –Working with suppliers:  
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/working-with-suppliers
 –Building a sustainable future (including 
sustainable finance and sustainable 
operations): www.hsbc.com/our-
approach/building-a-sustainable-future
 –Our approach to risk and responsibility 
(including health and safety and tax 
transparency): www.hsbc.com/our-
approach/risk-and-responsibility
48 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Additional information
