We are committed to improving customer 
experience through investments in 
technology. Here we highlight some  
of our areas of focus during 2018.
Improving customer experience
We are investing in technology to get  
to know our customers better and make 
use of these insights to provide them  
with clarity about their finances. Digital 
messaging is used to help our UK 
customers with financial difficulties 
manage their debt, including accessing 
debt consolidation services and charities 
online. Since launching this new service  
in November 2018, we have received 
more than 17,000 visits. 
For our global and institutional customers, 
we became one of the first banks in 2018 
to roll out Face ID login globally. The Live 
Chat service on HSBCnet is now available 
to more than 56,000 customers in six 
countries. It has consistently high customer 
satisfaction ratings, reaching 89% in July 
2018. We were also the first foreign bank  
in mainland China to allow customers to 
access services through WeChat.
Mobile banking experience
We have seen significant growth in 
mobile adoption rates for our retail 
customers, with the proportion of mobile 
active customers increasing by almost 
50% in 2018. We have introduced new 
mobile app features, such as remote 
cheque deposit in the UK and Canada, 
mobile chat in the UK, and International 
Education Payment Solution (‘IEPS’) in 
China, which allows customers to pay for 
their children’s international education 
fees from their mobile phones. 
Our PayMe mobile app allows HSBC 
customers and non-customers to send  
and receive money instantly and for free. 
PayMe has approximately 1.5 million 
users with over two million payments 
made each month, making it the number 
one peer-to-peer payments app in Hong 
Kong, according to the Hong Kong 
Monetary Authority. 
In 2018, we launched new mobile apps in 
five markets, with improved functionality 
such as biometric login and the ability  
to put temporary blocks on cards. As  
we continue our roll-out of new apps, 
approximately 20% of active mobile users 
still use the legacy app, which lacks some 
features users expect. This can be seen 
through low Apple App store ratings, 
where our legacy mobile app scores an 
average 1.9 out of 5 compared with the 
new app scoring 4.8 in the UK and  
4.7 in Hong Kong.
Our new Business Express mobile app 
helps enable our commercial customers  
to stay on top of their business finances 
any time, anywhere. Key features include 
biometric access through fingerprint  
or facial recognition, fast and accurate 
tracking of recent incoming funds, 
outgoing payments as well as all trade 
transactions, plus instant help from the 
chatbot Ask Amy 24/7. New features will 
be added, including notifications and 
faster payment journeys. 
Machine learning/AI
Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and machine 
learning are becoming easier to use 
through our adoption of cloud computing, 
open source frameworks and commercial 
solutions. AI is being used to better 
segment customers for financial crime 
detection and to investigate potential 
crime faster and to a higher quality. 
Machine learning is at the heart of our 
intelligence-led financial crime models, 
where it is being trialled to improve 
real-time detection rates and reduce  
false positives. AI is also being used 
increasingly within our RBWM business  
to determine customer needs, and to 
enable us to make relevant offers to our 
customers at the right time for them.
For our retail customers, we introduced 
machine learning-enabled chatbots in 
mainland China, Hong Kong and the  
US to handle basic questions so that 
customers would not need to wait for  
a live agent to be available. 
For our global and institutional clients,  
our virtual assistant uses machine learning 
to answer customers’ questions. It is 
available in five languages. 
Investing in digital
45%1
of our retail 
customers are 
digitally active 
(2017: 41%)
60%
of our commercial 
banking customers use 
our internet banking
1.  Digital metrics include the following markets: the 
UK (excluding M&S Bank and John Lewis Finance 
customers), Hong Kong (excluding Hang Seng 
customers), Mexico, Malaysia, Singapore, UAE, 
mainland China, Canada, Australia, the US, 
France, India, Indonesia, Turkey, Egypt, Argentina 
and Taiwan. Digitally active customers are defined 
as the percentage of customers who have logged 
on to HSBC digital channels at least once in the 
last 90 days. 
Customer developments  
across all global businesses
Our investment in technology
18 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
Customers
