24Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Making a material difference.
Our focus to date has been on proving what’s possible: identifying barriers 
to implementing closed-loop solutions and crafting pilot projects from which 
we can learn. In many cases, we have deepened our understanding and 
relationships within our downstream recycling supply chain. And in other 
cases, we’re invested heavily in research to identify closed-loop solutions.
Aluminum. We’ve found that one of the best sources of recycled aluminum 
comes from our own products and processes. That’s because we specify 
such a high grade of the material to make our products strong, durable, 
and beautiful. And today, the only way to keep the aluminum at this quality 
level is with a clean material stream—not mixing it with other grades of 
scrap aluminum, as is typical at recycling facilities. So our challenge is to 
recover the aluminum from our products and processes without degrading 
its quality. With Liam, Daisy‘s predecessor, we found a way to maintain the 
original aluminum purity from reclaimed phones post disassembly. So we 
designed Daisy to integrate this step.
Cobalt.* We primarily use cobalt in batteries. But it is not consistently 
recovered, and recycled cobalt is not well tracked in the market. So 
we’ve implemented a pilot project to ship battery scrap from suppliers 
that assemble iPhone and Mac in Shanghai to a recycler upstream in 
Apple’s battery supply chain. We plan to account for this material in a 
way that ensures the cobalt in those batteries is not only recovered and 
recycled responsibly, but allocated toward production of Apple batteries 
in the future. In addition, we continue to responsibly source cobalt, and 
100 percent of known cobalt refiners are participating in third-party audits.
Copper. Copper forms the conductive pathways on printed circuit 
boards, cables, and connectors. In partnership with our suppliers, we are 
investigating new methods to manufacture our printed circuit boards that 
will allow us to reduce the amount of copper needed in the process. And 
for sourcing, we are exploring ways to increase the amount of recycled 
copper we use for some of our printed circuit board and copper foil 
vendors, and directing in-process materials to recyclers who can integrate 
into our supply chain. 
Glass. We’re working with our cover glass suppliers to ensure that all 
glass scrap generated during the manufacturing process is recycled at 
the highest level possible. And we are partnering with them to enhance 
in-process reuse and reprocessing in ways not traditionally done in 
this industry. 
Paper. We’ve successfully created a closed-loop supply chain for paper. 
That means that 100 percent of the wood fibers in our packaging is either 
recycled or comes from sustainably managed forests or controlled wood 
sources. And we have protected or created enough sustainably managed 
forests to cover all the wood fiber we use in our packaging.
