28Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
In partnership with The Conservation Fund, we’ve protected 36,000 acres 
of forest in the Eastern United States that are certified as sustainably 
managed. In Maine, we’re protecting more than 32,400 acres in the Reed 
Forest, which includes critical wetlands and upland forest habitats that 
support a number of wildlife species in Maine’s iconic North Woods. 
In North Carolina, we’re protecting more than 3600 acres of pine and 
hardwood forest in Brunswick County along the southern coast of North 
Carolina. Apple and The Conservation Fund have donated a conservation 
easement for both properties. The conservation easements ensure the 
forests won’t be developed or converted to other uses, and will continue  
to produce sustainable fiber and other wood products.
In 2015, we announced a five-year partnership with WWF to transition 
up to one million acres of forest, across southern provinces of China, 
into responsible management by 2020. WWF’s work has three primary 
components:
• Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by 
creating up to 300,000 acres of FSC-certified forests, and up to  
700,000 acres of forests under improved management.
• Improve China’s policy framework to encourage responsible forest 
management.
• Establish long-term market incentives in China for responsibly 
sourced paper.
In just three years, we’ve surpassed our first objective by supporting 
320,000 acres of forest to achieve FSC certification, and improving the 
management of an additional 430,000 acres of forest land in southern 
China. Altogether we’ve improved responsible management of 750,000 
acres, or about 1170 square miles. 
To address the project‘s second objective, in 2017, China’s State Forestry 
Administration and WWF released the China Sustainable Plantation 
Guidelines, which will be used to identify opportunities for improved 
forest management on more than 7 million acres of forest land included  
in China’s National Reserved Forestry Program.
And to create market incentives for responsibly sourced paper, WWF 
and the China Sustainable Paper Alliance continued to raise consumer 
awareness of the importance of responsible forest management. They 
launched a campaign that reached more than 20 million people through 
many events, media coverage, corporate engagement, and a celebrity 
spokesperson. 
100% 
We have protected or created  
enough responsibly managed  
forests to cover the 51,000 metric  
tons of virgin paper we used in  
our packaging in fiscal year 2017.
