33Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Identifying alternative sources. 
Once we have minimized our water use, we look to alternative sources  
to help reduce freshwater withdrawals, including recycled water, reclaimed 
water, and rainwater harvesting. At our headquarters in Santa Clara Valley, 
we helped extend the City of Sunnyvale’s recycled water system to our 
new Apple Park campus and to another new campus set to open in  
mid-2018. Between both campuses, use of this recycled water will replace 
over 30 million gallons of potable freshwater. We are also capturing 
rainwater for cooling, irrigation, and construction needs at our Maiden 
data center, and for our corporate offices in Cork, Ireland; Austin, Texas; 
and Yokohama Japan. 
Pursuing water stewardship. 
We‘re looking to restore water resources in the most critical regions in 
which we operate. For example, our Southern California retail stores make 
up the majority of our highly stressed water use in retail. Though our 
new back-of-house design will minimize water use, we still face risk from 
poor overall health of the watershed. So we partnered with Bonneville 
Environmental Foundation (BEF) to help fund WAYS Park, a project led 
by Heal the Bay in South Los Angeles. The park will collect and filter 
stormwater runoff from 9 acres surrounding the site—delivering water 
quality benefits and groundwater recharge to the Los Angeles River 
Watershed, as well as recreational benefits to an underserved community.
24 million
We used 24 million gallons of recycled 
water and captured rainwater in 2017.
Green Buildings
Designing our buildings with the planet 
in mind.
We want our commitment to the environment to show in everything we  
do—not just in our products, but at the offices where our employees 
work, in the services that our customers use, and in the spaces where 
our customers shop. We actively apply green building principles to all 
of our office, data center, and retail store projects. This means we’re 
creating these spaces to be environmentally responsible and use resources 
efficiently. For most projects, we are able to meet the U.S. Green Building 
Council’s LEED Gold requirements, and sometimes LEED Platinum—the 
highest level. 
Whether we’re building a new facility or renovating an already occupied 
one, we also think about enhancements that improve the general well 
being of our employees—such as inviting outdoor spaces. In addition, we 
proactively provide a high percentage of EV charging stations to all our 
corporate campuses, offer a comprehensive commute program, and utilize 
green cleaning and pest control products.
