8Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
How we got to 100 percent.
Beginning January 2018, all of the electricity from our facilities worldwide  
is covered by renewable energy. This is how we did it. 
Energy efficiency. 
The cleanest energy is the energy you never use. That’s why we design  
our facilities for maximum energy efficiency and regularly audit them to 
identify further opportunities for energy optimization. 
We’ve been systematically expanding our energy efficiency programs  
from our Santa Clara Valley buildings in California to our other large 
campuses, including those in Elk Grove and Culver City, California, and in 
Austin, Texas. Efficiency improvements include upgrading to LED lighting, 
retro-commissioning building and lighting controls, and upgrading heating, 
ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems.
And in fiscal year 2017, we conducted a comprehensive lighting and HVAC 
retro-commissioning program throughout our retail stores—resulting in an 
overall electricity savings of 3.7 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year from 
the evaluation of nearly 500 operating retail stores around the world.
Altogether, we reduced our energy footprint in fiscal year 2017 by 14.7 million 
kWh and 225,000 therms. Thanks to energy efficiency measures we’ve 
implemented since 2011, we are now cumulatively saving 70 million kWh of 
electricity and over 2.4 million therms of natural gas per year.
Every time you send an iMessage, make 
a FaceTime call, ask Siri a question, 
stream a song, or share a photo, it 
takes energy. And those tasks are 
handled by our data servers running 
on 100 percent wind, solar, low-impact 
hydro, or biogas fuel cell power.
9  million  square feet
In fiscal year 2017, we implemented 
energy efficiency measures in more than 
9 million square feet of Apple facilities, 
with a combined annual electricity use  
of over 300 million kWh—resulting in  
an average energy savings of about 
5 percent.
