36Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Our Approach 
Design, manufacture, test. Repeat.
To help protect people and the planet, we set strict standards for the 
materials used in our devices—in many cases going far beyond what’s 
required by law. The evaluation process begins early in the design and 
manufacturing phases. If replacements for hazardous chemicals aren’t 
readily available, we work with our suppliers to find substitutions, or explore 
how to eliminate the need for that substance. When we test replacements, 
we look for formulations that meet our environmental standards without 
compromising performance. And, of course, the end product must still live 
up to the design standards you expect from Apple. 
Safer materials assurance process
Through extensive testing, research, and toxicological assessments, we design  
products to be safe. And then we continue to evaluate products while they’re under-
going product development and after they’re released to make sure they stay safe.
• Set standard (Regulated Substances Specification)
• Educate suppliers
• Research safer alternatives
•  Validate compliance to RSS at Environmental Testing 
 Lab and third-party labs
• Collect full material disclosure
•  Conduct toxicological assessments 
•  Audit suppliers
• Validate supplier compliance documentation
•  Test incoming components at final assembly sites
• Audit suppliers
•  Test incoming components at final assembly sites 
Product
Development
Post Product
Release
Set Policy
Validation and Toxicology 
We run our own environmental  
testing lab.
We built our own Environmental Testing Lab, where our chemists and 
toxicologists look for any potentially harmful substances. Since 2006, we 
have expanded it to more than 30 times its original size, and have regularly 
updated it with state-of-the-art equipment—like an inductively coupled 
plasma mass spectrometer, a liquid chromatography mass spectrometer, 
and a laser-induced breakdown spectrometer similar to the one used by 
the Mars rover. We’ve even manufactured artificial sweat to simulate human 
exposure, and to evaluate the safety of our materials that come into contact 
with skin.
We screen our materials with  
comprehensive risk assessment 
tools, including GreenScreen®, 
which evaluates substances 
against 18 different hazards, 
including carcinogens, mutagens, 
and endocrine disruptors.
