32Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Our water strategy.
Our risk-based water strategy focuses on understanding watershed context, 
prioritizing areas of high water risk and use, and recognizing that each 
location requires its own solution.
Prioritizing our efforts.
We want to focus where our efforts matter the most and can have the  
largest positive impact. So we map our global water use against water  
quality, quantity, and regulatory factors to understand which regions have 
an elevated risk,20 then prioritize those locations based on how much 
water we‘re using.
Corporate water use by level of risk
0
200
400
600
800
Low Low-medium Medium-high High Extremely high
m
illi
on
s 
of
 g
al
lo
ns
54 percent of this water use 
occurs in three locations: 
Santa Clara Valley; Maiden,
North Carolina; and Mesa, Arizona.
We mapped our water use to  
different levels of water risk  
(as defined by WRI’s Aqueduct tool) 
across the world to understand 
where we should be focusing our 
conservation efforts. Water risk 
takes into consideration indicators 
such as water scarcity, business risk, 
and habitat and livelihood impact to 
the basins in which we operate.21
Using water efficiently. 
We work to minimize the water we use, especially in areas of elevated water 
risk. When siting a new facility, we consider overall watershed risk—including 
quantity, quality, and impact to the community—as a factor in our core due 
diligence process. We regularly install sub-meters to monitor and manage 
our water use, and reuse water wherever possible. At our corporate offices 
in Santa Clara Valley, our landscape efficiency program now integrates 
remote soil moisture sensors and rotating-head nozzles to reduce water 
use by 500,000 gallons. At our data centers in Prineville, Oregon, and Reno, 
Nevada, our design and operations teams have been piloting innovative 
mineral removal media in the cooling systems that will reduce our cooling 
water discharge by up to 30 percent. We are continuing to invest in new 
cooling technologies to reduce data center water use. In our retail business, 
redesigned back-of-house space includes low-flow fixtures anticipated to 
deliver up to 30 percent water savings compared with our previous design. 
Over 25 stores have been built with this new design. 
