64Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 2
These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (close to 99%) of Apple Inc. annual 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The 
aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows: 
 Manufacturing Transportation Product Use Recycling 
2017 21.14 1.21 4.73 0.04 
[MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] 
MMT CO2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents 
Including a reported value of 0.34 million metric tons CO2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total comprehensive carbon footprint is reported to be 27.45 million 
metric tons CO2e. 
Apple’s comprehensive carbon footprint includes an increasing amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting from Apple renewable energy projects, 
supplier renewable electricity purchases, and supplier renewable electricity installations.  
These reductions are part of Apple’s Clean Energy Program. Fraunhofer IZM has not 
verified these emissions reductions. 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 carbon footprint 
? is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 
information, and 
? has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 
GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 
2 Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 
A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this carbon footprint review and verification, defining the level of assurance, 
objectives, criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 
As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
? Sales data for FY2017, including accessories and including AppleCare, Apple's 
extended warranty and technical support plans for their devices. 
