75Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Appendix D
Environmental Health and Safety Policy 
Statement 
Mission Statement 
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of 
our employees, customers, and the global communities where we operate. 
We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety 
management practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer 
technologically innovative products and services while conserv ing and 
enhancing resources for future generations. 
Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health 
and safety management sys tems and in the environmental quality of our 
products, processes, and services. 
Guiding Principles 
• Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety 
requirements. We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring 
ongoing performance results and through periodic management reviews. 
• Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will 
adopt our own standards to protect human health and the environment. 
• Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible 
public policy that enhance environmental quality, health and safety. 
• Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety 
principles and practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers. 
• Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to 
Apple employees and stakeholders. 
• Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote 
energy efficiency, and pro tect the environment. 
• Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve 
energy and materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life 
cycle including design, manufacture, use, and end-of- life management. 
• Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to 
fulfill and sustain Apple’s en vironmental, health and safety management 
systems and policy.
Luca Maestri  
Senior Vice President and CFO 
January 2018
