44Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Collaborating for joint success. 
We’ve continued to work with cross-sector companies, researchers, 
suppliers, thought leaders, and technical experts to forge new paths,  
build unique solutions, and inspire others to continue their efforts. 
We are building relationships with key academic institutions worldwide—like 
with Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and Management in Beijing, 
where we are funding a $3 million endowed chair professorship based on 
Responsible Innovation. We also collaborated with Tsinghua for a second year 
on an App Innovation Contest and a Green Innovators program, which focus 
on identifying creative solutions to environmental challenges, governance, 
and public administration through entrepreneurship. 
In 2016, we partnered with app developers and customers across the globe 
to create Apps for Earth, an initiative that generated over $8 million to 
support World Wildlife Fund’s global environmental projects. As of November 
2017, World Wildlife Fund had invested approximately $6.5 million of funds 
raised, focusing on environmental projects in seven key areas: 
• Conservation of coastal riches
• Combating climate change
• Preserving forests
• Ensuring sustainable food sources
• Providing safe and secure water
• Saving sea turtles and tigers 
• Harmonizing people, nature, and wildlife
We continue to meet with our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, made 
up of some of the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics. 
The board helps us identify innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins 
from our supply chain. We also invite experts from around the world to meet 
with leaders at Apple. Together, we focus on eliminating toxins at each stage 
of our process. 
In 2017, we invited key stakeholders to participate in small closed-door 
roundtables in Europe, the United States, and China to obtain feedback on 
Apple’s closed-loop ambition and our current approach. Attendees included  
a range of academics, NGOs, industry leaders, and other companies.
