30Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
At our corporate offices and retail stores, we’re creating robust recycling 
and composting programs to minimize the environmental impact of the 
waste we produce. In fiscal year 2017, we generated 53,800 metric tons 
of waste, of which we diverted from landfill about 71 percent through 
recycling and composting. We continue to find ways to reduce the waste 
we send to landfill—like expanding composting at our corporate campuses 
and pursuing a zero waste effort at over 500 retail stores and at our 
headquarters in Santa Clara Valley, which includes more than 200 buildings. 
Apple disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. We complete regular 
audits of the Transportation, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF), where 
hazardous waste is ultimately sent to be treated, recycled, or incinerated. 
Only facilities we audit and approve are allowed to accept and treat the 
hazardous waste Apple generates. We take this commitment seriously—if 
the TSDFs do not meet our strict standards for environment, health, safety, 
and waste management protocols, we switch facilities. 
While we have a disassembly solution for nine models of iPhone, we also 
want to make sure other electronic devices stay out of landfills so that 
the resources they contain can be reused. So we’ve developed recycling 
collection events, take-back initiatives, and efforts like Apple GiveBack that 
make it easier to return old Apple devices to Apple. We’re also working with 
recyclers around the world, whose facilities we hold to rigorous standards 
of environmental compliance, health and safety, and social responsibility.  
71%
We diverted from landfill about  
71 percent of waste across all of 
Apple’s facilities, including our 
retail stores. 
Water
We hold ourselves accountable for  
every drop of water we use.
Water is essential to all life. We need it to drink, to grow our food, and  
to maintain natural ecosystems throughout the planet. And though water 
is a renewable resource, its scarcity—often exacerbated by climate 
change—makes it precious in many parts of the world. So we hold ourselves 
accountable for the water we use, whether at our corporate offices, our  
data centers and retail stores, or in our suppliers’ facilities around the globe.
