67Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged by Apple, Inc. (Apple) to conduct an 
independent assurance of its Supplier Clean Energy Program data reported in its 2017 environmental 
report (the Report).  This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the 
scope of work described below.  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders 
of Apple. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to Apple’s stakeholders on the 
accuracy, reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.   
This information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple.  BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the Report.  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  
? Methodology for tracking and verifying supplier clean energy contributions, including the 
Energy Survey, Renewable Energy Agreement, and other forms of supporting documentation 
provided by suppliers where available; 
? Assurance of Clean Energy Program data and information for the fiscal year 2017 reporting 
period (September 25, 2016 through September 30, 2017), specifically, in accordance with 
Apple’s definitions: 
o Energy: Reported megawatt-hours (MWh) of clean energy attributed to the Clean Energy 
Program for suppliers; 
o Avoided Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with clean energy attributed to 
the Clean Energy Program; 
o Operational Capacity in megawatts (MWac) of clean energy in support of Apple 
manufacturing as a part of Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program; 
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect, analyze, and review the information reported;  
Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 
? Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
? Activities outside the defined assurance period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook the following activities:  
1. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 
2. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple;  
3. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple;  
4. Audit of reported data, including a detailed review of a sample of data against source data; 
and 
5. Review of Apple information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal 
verification and review of environmental data.  
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  
Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 
 
