63Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Comprehensive Carbon Footprint Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc. 1
Letter of Assurance 
Comprehensive Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product related Carbon 
Footprint for Fiscal Year 2017 
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 carbon footprint data related to the products 
manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2017.  
1 Summary 
This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated 
comprehensive annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle 
assessment (LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2017. This review and verification 
focuses on Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by 
WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard). It is 
noted that emissions relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 
and 2 emissions) as well as business travel and employee commute were subject to a 
separate third party verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this 
statement. Confidential data relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded 
from the scope of this verification.  
This review and verification covers Apple’s annual greenhouse gas emissions and does not 
replace reviews conducted for individual product LCAs for greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products has been 
calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental management – 
Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and guidelines. This 
review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 
3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas 
assertions.  
The review of the annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 
? The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined 
? Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
? Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 
are adequately disclosed 
