25Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Plastics. Wherever possible, we’re moving to recycled or bio-based 
plastics, and in some cases, like for our packaging, we’re working to 
eliminate the need for plastics altogether. We’ve reduced the amount of 
plastics in our product packaging by 29 percent compared to 2016. For 
the remaining plastics, we’re looking for bio-based or recycled alternatives 
to petroleum-based plastics. We’re using these alternatives in a number of 
components—for example, the speaker, keyboard, and trackpad enclosures 
of iMac Pro are made with 60 percent recycled plastic. And the fan 
assembly is made with 26 percent bio-based plastic.
Rare earth elements. These elements include neodymium, praseodymium, 
and dysprosium, which are used in magnets for audio applications, in 
cameras, and in haptics technology. Traditional recyclers don’t typically 
recover rare earth elements, because they are often in small magnets that 
are embedded in a number of different components within iPhone. Daisy 
retrieves those components. So we’re now investing in new technologies to 
recover the material from those components so they can be used again. 
Steel. We use stainless steel in the enclosure construction of iPhone X and 
some Apple Watch models. Stainless steel is a highly recyclable material, 
and we’re working with our suppliers to increase the recycled content in the 
stainless steel that we source. 
Tin.* There is an existing market supply of recycled tin, but we wanted 
to make sure it meets our quality standards. So in 2017 we proved that 
we could use 100 percent recycled tin for the solder on the main logic 
board (where the majority of tin is found) of iPhone 6s. Since then, we’ve 
expanded to other products: We’re now specifying 100 percent recycled tin 
for the solder on the main logic board of iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 8, 
and iPhone 8 Plus.** But to truly close the loop, we want to recover as 
much tin as we’re using—and make sure the tin is recycled responsibly and 
put back into the world’s supply. Unfortunately, tin is not recovered by all 
electronics recyclers. So we‘re prioritizing responsibly operated recyclers 
that recover tin, in addition to the copper and precious metals, from the 
main logic boards retrieved by Daisy. 
Tungsten.* Tungsten is a key material used in our Taptic Engine and other 
consumer electronics that enable devices to vibrate. The availability of 
recycled tungsten varies by geography and by supplier, and the tungsten in 
our products is currently lost to shredding in traditional recycling processes. 
So Daisy retrieves the alert module and allows us to send it to speciality 
recyclers who recover tungsten. 
 *  Apple is committed to the responsible sourcing of materials for our products. We identify and map both 
regulated and unregulated materials in our products deep in the supply chain. For the second year in a row, 
100 percent of our identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, and cobalt smelters and refiners participated in 
independent third-party audits. We go beyond what is required by law, including by publishing smelter lists,  
to meet and exceed internationally accepted due diligence standards and help protect the people in our  
supply chain. Download Apple’s Conflict Minerals Report. 
** The recycled tin we?re transitioning to has been verified by a third party to be 100  
percent recycled.
