3Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
Environmental Responsibility at Apple 
To ask less of the planet,  
we ask more of ourselves. 
Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, 
Apple’s Vice President of Environment, 
Policy and Social Initiatives, reporting 
directly to CEO Tim Cook. The Office of 
Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives 
works with teams across Apple to set 
strategy, engage stakeholders, and 
communicate progress. Our integrated 
approach means that decisions about 
Apple values, including environment,  
are reviewed and supported at the  
highest levels of the company.
Apple’s mission has never wavered. We are here to change the world. 
It’s what inspires the amazing products and services that reach billions 
of people around the globe. It’s what drives us to relentlessly push the 
boundaries of innovation and design. And it’s why we continuously strive 
to do more with less—reducing our impact on the Earth we all share, 
while expanding and redefining the possibilities ahead.
Our 11th annual Environmental Responsibility Report covers fiscal year 
2017, and highlights the progress we’ve made in meeting our environmental 
objectives. The challenges are complex, but the philosophy is simple: Apply 
the same innovation that goes into making our products. Today, we remain 
focused on three priorities where we and our stakeholders believe Apple 
can make the biggest difference:
• Climate change: Reduce our impact on climate change by using 
renewable energy sources and driving energy efficiency in our products, 
facilities, and supply chain. 
• Resources: Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive. 
• Safer materials: Pioneer the use of safer materials in our products 
and processes. 
In each of these key areas, we set ambitious but measurable goals, then 
develop smart solutions to meet them. Our work to reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions is a great example. 
More than a decade ago, we started to transition our electricity use 
to renewable sources. Today, we’re proud to power 100 percent of 
our operations around the world with 100 percent renewable energy. 
That means every Apple data center, retail store, corporate office, and 
colocation facility in 43 countries around the world now runs on clean 
power. In the process, we’ve paved the way for other companies and 
organizations to purchase renewable energy and transition their own 
operations to greener power.
