60Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged by Apple, Inc. (Apple) to conduct an 
independent assurance of select environmental data reported in its 2017 environmental report (the 
Report).  This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of 
work described below.  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple. 
The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to Apple’s stakeholders on the accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.   
This information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple.  BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the Report.  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  
? Assurance of select environmental data and information included in the Report for the fiscal 
year 2017 reporting period (September 25, 2016 through September 30, 2017), specifically, in 
accordance with Apple’s definitions and World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  
o Energy: Direct (Million Therms) and Indirect (Million kilowatt hours (mkWh)) 
o Renewable Energy (mkWH) 
o Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons) 
o Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions: Direct Scope 1 emissions by weight, Indirect Scope 
2 emissions by weight, Indirect Scope 3 emissions by weight (Employee Commute and 
Business Travel) (Metric Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent) 
o Waste Quantities and Disposition (Metric Tonnes) 
o Paper Quantities (Metric Tonnes) 
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported;  
Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 
? Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
? Activities outside the defined assurance period  
 
Methodology  
BVNA undertook the following activities:  
1. Site visits to Apple facilities in Culver City, California; Maiden, North Carolina; London, United 
Kingdom; Taipei, Taiwan; and Tokyo, Japan.  
2. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 
3. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple;  
4. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple;  
5. Audit of environmental performance data presented in the Report, including a detailed review 
of a sample of data against source data; and 
6. Review of Apple information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal 
verification and review of environmental data.  
Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  
