62Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc. Page 3 
Our Conclusion 
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that:  
? The Energy, Water, Waste, Paper, and Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG Emissions assertions shown 
above are materially correct and are a fair representation of the data and information; and 
? Apple has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
relevant environmental information, and has implemented underlying internal assurance 
practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete 
and accurate.  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
BVNA is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of $4.6 billion Euros. 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest.  
 
BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined 
experience in this field and an excellent understanding of BVNA standard methodology for the 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports.  
Attestation:  
     
Trevor A. Donaghu, Lead Verifier  
   
David Reilly, Technical Reviewer 
Technical Director, Climate Change Services Senior Project Manager 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
April 6, 2018 
 
