68Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2018 Progress Report, Covering FY2017
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc. Page 2 
The work was planned and carried out to provide limited assurance for all indicators and we believe it 
provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  
 
Our Findings   
BVNA verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2017 reporting period (September 25, 
2016 through September 30, 2017):  
 
Parameter Quantity Units Boundary/ Protocol 
Clean Energy Use 1.88 Million megawatt Apple suppliers / Apple 
hours (mMWh) Internal Protocol 
Avoided GHG Emissions 1.55  Million metric tons Apple suppliers / Apple 
of carbon dioxide Internal Protocol 
equivalent 
(MMtCO2e) 
Operational Capacity 1,154 Megawatts (MWac) Apple suppliers / Apple 
Internal Protocol 
  
Our Conclusion 
Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the assertions 
for Clean Energy Consumption, Avoided GHG Emissions, and Operational Capacity shown above:  
? Are not materially correct; 
? Are not a fair representation of the stated information; and 
? Have not been prepared in accordance with Apple’s stated protocols for their Clean Energy 
Program.  
It is our opinion that Apple has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of the above indicators for the stated period and 
boundaries.  
 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
BVNA is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, 
Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2017 revenue of $4.6 billion Euros. 
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest.  
 
BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   
