Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
Letter from our CEO 
Dear shareholders, customers, partners and employees:
As I reflect on our progress this past year, I first want to say thank you for your 
commitment and investment in Microsoft. I’m proud of what we’ve accomplished 
together as we innovate and help customers navigate their digital transformation, 
and I am even more optimistic about the opportunity ahead.
We are living at a crucial time in history where the impact of technology on every 
part of our daily life and work and every aspect of our society and economy is 
more acute than ever before. It is incumbent upon leaders of our industry to ensure 
that the technology we build always creates opportunity. Too often, we celebrate 
technology disruption for the sake of disruption without reflecting on its unintended 
consequences. What the world needs is technology that benefits people and society 
more broadly and is trusted.
Our mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet 
to achieve more. Our business model is dependent on our customers’ and part-
ners’ success. We are grounded in creating local economic opportunity in every 
community, helping to unlock the power of technology to address our customers’ 
most pressing challenges. Our platforms and tools enable creativity in all of us. 
They help drive small-business productivity, large business competitiveness and 
public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and 
health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. Our sense of purpose lies in our 
customers’ success.
Our culture enables us to pursue our mission with a growth mindset. It’s a continu-
ous practice of learning, renewal and having the courage to confront our own fixed 
mindsets. Collectively, we are moving from a group of people who know it all to a 
group of people who want to learn it all. To achieve our mission, we must reflect the 
diverse perspectives and experiences of our customers around the world. We must 
have a deep sense of their unmet and unarticulated needs. Each day we are push-
“We are grounded in creating local economic 
opportunity in every community, helping to 
unlock the power of technology to address 
our customers’ most pressing challenges.”
