Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
FY18 highlights In 2018, we deepened our commitment to diversity and inclusion, offered our em-
ployees valuable training, and found better ways to support both them and their 
loved ones.
Employee feedback counts
Nearly 90% of employees participated in our annual engagement survey—93% said 
they’re proud to work for Microsoft and 89% said they’d recommend it as a great 
place to work. We also collected over 75,000 Daily Pulse responses and worked with 
leadership to address employee concerns.
Ethical business decision making
All Microsoft employees must complete annual Standards of Business Conduct 
training. The training course is available in 16 languages and in FY18 we achieved a 
course completion rate greater than 99 percent.
Learn about the standards ?
Committed to diversity and inclusion
To engage the diverse and dynamic emerging workforce—we build excitement for 
STEM, seek out non-traditional talent sources, commit to inclusive behaviors, and 
inspire our people to enhance their awareness, curiosity, and courage.
Learn more about our approach ?
Global family leave
Microsoft offers generous paid family leave to employees worldwide. Employees get 
a minimum of 20 weeks paid parental leave for birth parents and six weeks for non-
birth parents. There’s also caregiver leave, which allows employees up to four weeks 
of paid leave to care for an immediate family member.
Review the announcement ?
Perspectives
We introduced a new approach to feedback called Perspectives, which was built 
using learnings from neuroscience and social psychology. Perspectives aims to 
improve how we ask for, share, and receive high-quality feedback to enable our 
growth mindset and better embrace our culture.
Learn more about Perspectives ?
Global health and safety
Our commitment to health and safety spans the globe. In 2018, Microsoft opera-
tions in the United Kingdom achieved recertification of ISO18001 with no non-con-
formances—and operations in Spain received annual, government-issued cash 
health and safety bonuses for the ninth consecutive year.
Learn about our commitment ?
