Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
These are strong results — and yet the opportunity ahead in a world powered by 
an intelligent cloud and edge is unprecedented. Imagine a future where all of your 
apps and experiences revolve around you and transcend any single device; where 
data in any form is analyzed in real time so that computers can anticipate and even 
act on your behalf and augment what you would otherwise be able to accomplish 
on your own. And where computing is more distributed and embedded in the 
world, from intelligent digital assistants at work, on the go and in your home that 
you can communicate with in a myriad of ways — voice, eyes or gestures — to oil 
rigs that adjust production in real time as demand fluctuates in global markets.
Across each of our customer solution areas, we are broadening our offerings and 
accelerating our innovation to capture the opportunities this new era will create for 
our customers and better meet their unarticulated needs.
Modern Workplace
We expanded our Microsoft 365 offerings to reach new audiences and empow-
er more employees for the modern workplace, protecting data from increasingly 
sophisticated cybersecurity threats and delivering secure productivity and collabo-
ration tools. Already a multi-billion-dollar business, Microsoft 365 gives customers a 
path to the cloud and broadens our reach with new and under-penetrated markets 
— from Fortune 500 enterprises to small businesses to more than 2 billion firstline 
workers. More than 135 million people use Office 365 commercial every month, and 
Outlook Mobile is helping people be productive and stay secure on more than 100 
million iOS and Android devices worldwide — with AI-infused experiences they use 
every day. Microsoft Teams has rapidly become the hub for teamwork and is being 
used by more than 300,000 organizations of all sizes, including 87 of the Fortune 
100. Windows 10 is now active on nearly 700 million devices around the world. And 
we continue to create new device categories with always-on, always-connected 
Windows 10 PCs and an expanded family of Surface devices including the new Sur-
face Go — setting the bar for the industry.
Business Applications
Every process inside a business is being digitized, and we are winning customers 
with our differentiated approach, enabling organizations of all sizes to digitize 
critical business functions — from sales to marketing to HR. Dynamics 365 is the al-
ternative to monolithic, siloed suites of business applications with modular, extensi-
ble and AI-driven apps that are part of a connected data graph and unlock insights 
across every part of the organization. Net seats grew 52 percent year-over-year, and 
our investments in Power BI have made Microsoft the leader in business analytics 
in the cloud. Our recently announced Open Data Initiative with Adobe and SAP will 
enable our customers to take control of their data and build new experiences that 
truly put people at the center. And we are innovating with HoloLens and mixed 
reality to create immersive experiences that digitize physical spaces and interactions 
to transform training, collaboration and design for firstline workers, who account for 
80 percent of the world’s workforce.
LinkedIn is the essential platform to connect the world’s professionals and create 
economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce. LinkedIn now has 
more than 575 million members, and we are continuously innovating to give them 
new ways to connect and engage with one another — from increasing the relevan-
cy of the LinkedIn Feed to a better mobile experience, to introducing new video 
and messaging capability. And we are transforming how companies manage talent, 
training, and sales and marketing with new solutions powered by the LinkedIn and 
Microsoft Graphs. Dynamics 365 for Talent with LinkedIn Recruiter and Learning 
gives HR professionals a complete solution in an increasingly competitive talent 
marketplace, and deep integration of LinkedIn Sales Navigator and Dynamics 365
