Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Public policy engagement
Microsoft is proud to be recognized as an engaged leader in accountability and 
transparency in the public policy process.
Our commitment and approach Corporate participation in the public policy process helps to enhance the value we 
provide to shareholders. It is also fundamental to a free and democratic society.
Participation
We strive to ensure that our participation in the political process is open, transpar-
ent, and based on reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders and 
the public. Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political 
process in a variety of ways.
• Program engagement: We join corporate government affairs programs designed to educate and 
influence elected officials on key public policy issues related to our business. 
• Support: We give individual political employee donations through the Microsoft Political Action 
Committee (MSPAC). 
• Transparency: We’re transparent about data collection and use to allow users to make informed 
decisions.
• Collective action: We help to advance our business objectives through memberships in trade 
associations.
Policy agenda
A “Cloud for Global Good” is our policy roadmap designed to provide lawmakers 
and policy influencers with a set of recommendations to advance the digital trans-
formation opportunities that the cloud presents.
The policy roadmap is grounded in our belief in a future powered by the cloud, and 
our commitment to realize the social and economic benefits of cloud computing for 
everyone. The roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehen-
sive set of recommendations and considerations mapped to three core principles: a 
trusted cloud, a responsible cloud, an inclusive cloud.
Review our cloud policy roadmap ?
Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) are giving rise to computing systems that can 
see, hear, learn, and reason which creates new opportunities to improve education 
and healthcare, address poverty, and achieve a more sustainable future. Howev-
er, AI also raises complex ethical questions about the impact on society including 
jobs, privacy, inclusiveness, and fairness. To address these issues, we’ve published 
The Future Computed: Artificial intelligence and its role in society which discusses six 
principles to guide the development and deployment of AI solutions.
Responsible governance
The Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of the Microsoft Board of Directors is 
responsible for overseeing our public policy work and related activities. The com-
mittee receives regular, formal reports. The management of our participation in the 
US political process is the responsibility of the Corporate Vice President for US Gov-
ernment Affairs, who reports directly to Brad Smith, Microsoft President and Chief 
Legal Officer. Brad Smith reports to the company CEO, Satya Nadella.
