Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 50
Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities ResourcesProtecting our planet
Energy
We aspire to use our purchasing power, research and development and technolo-
gy to change how Microsoft – and ultimately the world – consumes energy. We’ve 
purchased more than 1 gigawatt of renewable energy and have renewable energy 
projects on three continents. In our datacenters, we pilot cutting-edge fuel cell 
research and energy-storage batteries inside. Beyond our operations, we work with 
customers, partners and policymakers to enable greater change. We have also in-
creased the energy efficiency of our devices and leveraged the energy saving capa-
bilities of Windows 10 to provide a better user experience while reducing consumer 
energy use. Lastly, our Factory of the Future solar panel installation, combined with 
the smart building system in one of our largest supplier’s facilities is projected to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions (in CO2e) by approximately three million pounds 
annually.
Learn more about our commitment ?
Waste minimization
We design our products, buildings, and operations to promote resource reduction 
and reuse, enabling a more resource-efficient and productive economy. We use 
life cycle assessments and value stream analysis to improve product and packaging 
resource efficiency. On average, we have reduced new product package weight by 
20 percent through a combination of right-sizing packaging to the product and 
introducing new lightweight materials. Microsoft is a member of over 150 recycling 
programs worldwide, covering electronics, batteries, and packaging. Beyond our 
products, our Puget Sound campus is zero-waste certified, reducing overall waste 
generation and diverting at least 90 percent of our operational waste from landfills.
Learn more about our products ?
FY18 highlights In 2018, we made strong progress towards our renewable energy, research and 
development, and product carbon efficiency goals.
A solar power milestone 
We signed a 315 MW project in Virginia which is the largest corporate solar agree-
ment in the United States. Purchasing clean energy where we have operations, 
especially when there are relatively few renewable projects, improves our operations 
and helps accelerate change.
Learn more about this project ?
Making our cloud green
A new study found that Microsoft cloud services are up to 93 percent more energy 
efficient and up to 98 percent more carbon efficient than our on-premises offerings 
as a result of our investments in efficiency and green energy.
Learn about our cloud ?
Unlocking conservation with AI
Using AI and a new Azure chip solution, Microsoft made a breakthrough discov-
ery and converted 200 million images into a national land cover map in about 10 
minutes. These maps can be used to protect land and watersheds, enable better 
disaster prediction and response, and fight deforestation.
Learn more about AI discoveries ?
