Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 49
Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities ResourcesProtecting our planet
Environmental  
sustainability 
Microsoft is committed to leveraging technology to solve some of the world’s most 
urgent environmental issues—focusing on areas where we can have the most posi-
tive impact.
Our commitment and approach
Impact at a glance
Microsoft aspires to enable a sustainable future by empowering every person and 
organization on the planet to thrive in a resource-constrained world.
Focus areas
Our environmental sustainability work focuses in three primary areas: carbon and 
energy, water and ecosystems (including agriculture, biodiversity, conservation), and 
waste minimization. We work to reduce our impact within our operations, create 
sustainable products and devices, innovate with our partners to solve environmental 
challenges with technology, and drive policies that help create a more sustainable 
future.
Water
At Microsoft, we believe in the sustainable management of the water resources we 
use across our operations We’re focused on increasing our understanding water-re-
lated risks and business impacts and how those affect the communities we serve. 
We set meaningful goals, improve our water efficiency, and advance innovative 
solutions to water challenges. The Silicon Valley campus will be the first tech cam-
pus with net-zero water certification, all the non-drinking water in the building will 
come from rainfall or on-site recycled water.
Learn more about our approach ?
Carbon
Our internal carbon fee has helped us achieve 100 percent carbon neutrality since 
2012. The carbon fee funds our work to improve operational efficiency and enables 
us to buy clean energy and invest in carbon offset community projects.
Learn more about our program ?
75% reduction in carbon emissions planned through continued carbon neutrality 
and energy commitments.
$50 million over five years dedicated to getting cloud and AI tools in the hands of 
those solving global environmental challenges.
100% carbon neutrality achieved by our global operations every year since 2012.
20% reduction in product packaging weight for new devices in FY18.
