Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
redefines social selling, enabling sales professionals to dramatically increase their 
effectiveness by drawing on the relationships in their personal networks. We will 
continue to innovate across the LinkedIn platform to add new value for members 
and customers.
Applications and Infrastructure
To thrive in the era of the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge, customers need a 
consistent computing stack from the cloud to the edge. Azure is the only hyperscale 
cloud that extends to the edge across identity, data, application platform, and secu-
rity and management — and this architectural advantage is increasingly clear to our 
customers. Azure revenue grew 91 percent year-over-year.
And we are investing aggressively to build Azure as the world’s computer. We ex-
panded our global datacenter footprint to 54 regions — more than any other cloud 
provider — and with the most comprehensive compliance coverage in the industry 
to meet evolving regulatory needs, creating broader economic benefit and oppor-
tunity in local markets on six continents. With Project Natick, we even innovated 
beyond land, experimenting with a full-scale subsea, zero emissions datacenter 
with the promise of setting new standards for datacenter provisioning, latency and 
sustainability.
We added nearly 500 new Azure capabilities in the past year alone, focused on both 
existing workloads and new workloads such as IoT and Edge AI. IoT is transforming 
the rules of manufacturing, retail, and oil and gas — fueling cloud and edge inno-
vation, accelerating the evolution of digital factories and enhancing supply-chain 
performance. Azure IoT and Azure Stack — a first-of-its-kind cloud-to-edge solu-
tion — enable customers and partners to build IoT solutions that run at the edge, 
so people from the factory floor to the retail store to the oil rig can manage devices 
and analyze data in real time. We introduced Azure Sphere, another first-of-its-kind, 
highly secure edge solution that combines chip design, an IoT operating system 
and a cloud service to secure the more than 9 billion microcontroller-powered 
devices entering the market each year — from kitchen appliances to industrial 
equipment. It’s an incredible example of how we are helping our customers realize 
the promise of a world of connected devices and things. And, our ambition extends 
beyond today’s computers to quantum computing to take us beyond the limitations 
of traditional, transistor-based computers and enable entirely new scenarios. We 
first unveiled our vision for quantum last year, and we are already seeing custom-
ers apply our quantum-inspired algorithms to address some of their most pressing 
challenges.
Data and AI
Our customers will increasingly need to build their own AI to extract insights from 
the ever-increasing amount of data they collect — and we are investing to make 
Azure the best cloud for their comprehensive data estates. We are democratizing 
data science and AI with Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Machine Learning and 
data services such as Azure Cosmos DB — the first globally distributed, multi-model 
database — to help organizations of all sizes convert their data into insights and 
experiences for competitive advantage. In less than a year, Azure Cosmos DB has 
already exceeded $100 million in annualized revenue. Azure Database for MySQL 
and PostgreSQL makes it even easier to bring open source-powered applications to 
Azure, expanding our opportunity in this space. And we are seeing rapid customer 
adoption of Azure Databricks for data preparation, advanced analytics and machine 
learning scenarios. We are leading in the field of AI research, achieving human pari-
ty with object recognition, speech recognition, machine reading and — this year — 
language translation. But that is not enough. We are committed to translating these 
breakthroughs into toolsets our customers can use. 
