Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 59
Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet Resources
Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index™
IMicrosoft received a 100% rating on the HRC Corporate Equality Index™ for the 
eleventh consecutive year and a distinction for “Best Places to Work for LGBT 
Equality.”
Learn more ?
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability
IIn 2018, the CPA-Zicklin Index named Microsoft as a “Trendsetter” among the S&P 
500 for our leadership in political disclosure and accountability. 
Learn more ?
RobecoSAM (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes)
As of 2018, Microsoft was named in the DJSI World and North America indexes. We 
celebrated our tenth year on the North America Index and ninth consecutive year 
on the World Index. 
Learn more ?
MSCI ESG Ratings
In 2017, MSCI Ratings awarded Microsoft a AAA rating—the highest rating available 
to organization. MSCI Ratings provides institutional investors with a more compre-
hensive ESG integration solution. 
Learn more ?
Sustainalytics Company ESG Reports
In 2017, Microsoft received an “Outperformer” rating from Sustainalytics, an inde-
pendent global ESG and corporate governance research, ratings, and analysis firm. 
Learn more ?
Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies
In 2018, Ethisphere Institute ranked Microsoft among the world’s most ethical com-
panies for the eighth year in a row. 
Learn more ?
EcoVadis Supplier Sustainability Rating
In 2018, Microsoft received Gold recognition thereby placing the company in the 
top five percent of performers evaluated by EcoVadis. 
Learn more ?
*The inclusion of Microsoft Corporation in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, 
service marks, or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of 
Microsoft and its affiliates by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property 
of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its 
affiliates.
 
