Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 51
Our approach Empowering people Strengthening communities ResourcesProtecting our planet
Redesigning our datacenters 
We successfully piloted an approach to use fuel cells as the primary power source 
for a small datacenter in Seattle, Washington. This simplified approach could double 
the energy efficiency of datacenters.
Learn more about the pilot ? 
Product packaging sustainability
For new programs in FY18, we reduced the weight of product packaging by 20 per-
cent, and decreased packaging related greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent.
Learn more about our program ?
Energy efficiency in our devices
The Surface Pro features a faster CPU and accelerated inking display while using 
less energy than the Surface Pro 4 and increasing battery life up to 13.5 hours.*
Learn more about energy efficiency ?
EPEAT Gold rating
n 2018, all Surface computers achieved EPEAT Gold environmental performance 
ratings in the US for their environmentally friendly design.
? Download our Devices Sustainability Report (PDF)
*Up to 13.5 hours of video playback. Testing conducted by Microsoft in April 2017 using preproduction 
Intel Core i5, 256GB, 8GB RAM device. Testing consisted of full battery discharge during video playback. 
All settings were default except: Wi-Fi was associated with a network and Auto-Brightness disabled. 
Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors of the Surface Pro line and extend 
its battery life.
FY18 reporting resources Environmental Sustainability Data Factsheet (PDF)
Find more information on key environmental indicators including greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy consumption, water consumption and discharge, and waste 
through our downloadable report.
2018 CDP Climate Change Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP climate change questionnaire, covering 
the FY17 reporting period.
2018 CDP Water Response (PDF)
Download our response to the annual CDP water questionnaire, covering the FY17 
reporting period.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Devices Sustainability at Microsoft (PDF)
Download the report to learn how we embed sustainability requirements directly 
into the business practices of our device organization and partners.
