Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 6
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
CSR Governance
Empowering every person and every organization to achieve more requires careful 
attention to the impact of our business practices, policies, and community invest-
ments.
We see the big picture The Microsoft Technology and Corporate Responsibility (TCR) team, in collaboration 
with leaders across business and operations, drives companywide approaches to 
corporate social responsibility issues. The head of TCR reports directly to Microsoft 
President and Chief Legal Officer, Brad Smith, who sits on our Senior Leadership 
Team and reports directly to CEO, Satya Nadella. We work together to earn the trust 
and confidence of the public, our customers, partners, employees, and sharehold-
ers.
The charter for the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Direc-
tors includes the responsibility to “review and provide guidance to the board and 
management about the company’s policies and programs that relate to corporate 
social responsibility, including accessibility, environmental sustainability, ethical busi-
ness practices, human rights, philanthropy, privacy and cybersecurity, and responsi-
ble sourcing.
At Microsoft, our focus on corporate social responsibility fosters sustained long 
term business success. Our corporate governance framework, policies, and practices 
are described in detail in our annual proxy statement and the corporate governance 
section of our Investor Relations website.
Details about our Ethics and Compliance policies and programs include our Stan-
dards of Business Conduct, which applies to Microsoft employees, executive officers, 
our Board of Directors, and Microsoft subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (where 
Microsoft directly or indirectly owns more than 50 percent of the voting control). 
Channels are provided to ensure that concerns can be raised and subsequently 
addressed. All Microsoft employees must complete an annual Standards of Business 
Conduct training course, available in 18 languages. In FY18, as in previous years, 
course completion was more than 99 percent. In addition, mandatory trainings ad-
dress the compliance risks of specific roles and business functions, while a variety of 
additional guidance options ensure awareness of our policies and our expectations 
for ethical behavior.
Working together with 
stakeholders  
We know that the decisions we make affect our employees, customers, partners, 
shareholders, suppliers, and communities and we take their voices into account. Mi-
crosoft receives input from millions of people each year—from individual customers 
to policymakers and global human rights specialists. We bring outside perspectives 
into the company and inform our business decisions through a variety of feedback 
channels. We go beyond formal channels, proactively engaging with key stakehold-
ers, advocacy groups, industry experts, CSR rating agencies, CSR-focused investors, 
and many others. We also share our learnings and practices thereby generating 
industry dialogue, informing public debate, and advancing greater progress.
