Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 34
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
FY18 reporting resources Workforce demographics
The demographics of our workforce will continue to serve as a measure of our 
progress toward a more diverse and inclusive Microsoft, and our contribution to the 
diversity of the tech industry at large.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture We offer many key resources to help visitors gain a more comprehensive under-
standing of our commitment to empowering our employees.
Microsoft careers
Microsoft is looking for the best and brightest talent. We invite candidates of all 
abilities to come as they are and do what they love.
Explore Microsoft careers ?
Diverse perspectives 
Microsoft applies diversity and inclusion values to all we do. From hiring and facili-
ties, to everyday interactions and innovations. 
Learn more about our approach ?
Microsoft Life 
Find stories on how employees are empowered by the company culture to follow 
their passions, make a difference in the world, and live a #MicrosoftLife.
Explore the Microsoft Life site ?
Inclusive hiring
To build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive 
workforce across all abilities. Through our inclusive hiring program, we work to-
wards that goal every day.
Learn about inclusive hiring ?
Global Human Rights Statement
Our Global Human Rights Statement and participation in the UN Global Compact, 
are part of our commitment to respecting human rights covenants and declarations.
Review the statement ?
Employee stories
Explore the technology and innovations Microsoft employees around the world are 
creating, from “solving” cancer to tracking down cybercriminals.
Check out our stories ?
