Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 39
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Supporting people and 
communities in need
Technology can play a critical role in helping build stronger more resilient commu-
nities following times of crisis.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft believes technology can play a critical role in helping the world’s most 
vulnerable people recover and rebuild their lives.
Empowering first responders
First responders provide critical services to those affected by natural disasters. 
Microsoft supports first response organizations through technology donations and 
financial support during response and recovery efforts. We also work closely with 
experts to better prepare for and respond to future disasters.
Empowering humanitarian organizations
From front-line aid workers to programs teams, humanitarian organizations pro-
vide a broad spectrum of vital services to vulnerable populations around the world. 
We’re committed to helping humanitarians organizations pursue their missions with 
secure, reliable, and trusted cloud solutions.
Empowering displaced people
Refugees face countless challenges as they flee their homes and countries. We 
partner with nonprofit organizations to provide digital skills resources and training 
to help displaced people begin rebuilding their lives.
FY18 highlights In the wake of some of the worst natural disasters, Microsoft stepped up to assist in 
recovery efforts to those affected.
Hurricane Maria
Following the devastation of Hurricane Irma, Maria brought additional damage to 
the Caribbean. Microsoft provided over $5 million in resources, and the Airband 
Initiative team donated TV White Space kits to support connectivity restoration 
throughout Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Island.
Central Mexico earthquake
Over 200 people were killed when a 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck Mexico City 
and central Mexico. Microsoft provided $700,000 in employee giving and financial 
support, delivered 2.3 million minutes of free Skype calls, and provided emergen-
cy-service teams to assist in the recovery efforts.
Hurricane Harvey
In response to incredible flooding in Texas and the Gulf Coast, Microsoft allocated 
over $2.4 million in resources and activated multiple missions to support local gov-
ernment agencies. In addition, Microsoft employee donation and corporate match-
ing provided $1.4 million to disaster response organizations.
