Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Human rights
We aim to respect human rights in the way we do business, and to advance those 
rights with the power of technology.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft aspires to leadership in business and human rights, and to serve as a 
catalyst for action by others—in the technology sector and beyond.
Class-leading due diligence
We aim to conduct best-in-class human rights impact assessments on our salient 
human rights actions, and emerging trends in business and human rights.
Rights-aware decision making
We’re deploying an integrated approach to human rights decision making across 
key aspects of Microsoft. 
Proactive engagement
We use actions and public statements to demonstrate that Microsoft is an import-
ant voice, and advocate for the promotion of human rights.
Transparent leadership
We’re advancing transparency in our work and promoting human rights through 
increased disclosure and engagement.
FY18 highlights The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Global Network 
Initiative Principles on Freedom of Expression and Privacy steer our human rights 
work.
Global human rights standards
We’ve updated our Global Human Rights Statement, increased organizational 
partnerships, and operationalized our human rights commitments through employ-
ee training and other due diligence activities. We’ve also implemented policies to 
ensure we have responsible and lawful access to customer data.
Learn our global human rights efforts ?
Empowering the UN
We’re working with the UN Human Rights Office to help them develop technology 
to predict, analyze, and respond to human rights situations. We’re also collabo-
rating on joint projects and have provided a multi-million dollar grant to support 
ongoing efforts.
Learn about our partnership ?
AI and human rights
Artificial intelligence (AI) can improve life in many ways and help solve socie-
tal problems but AI comes with both challenges and opportunities. We need to 
address the challenges together with shared responsibility. Our book, The Future 
Computed, outlines the future of responsible AI technology.
Learn about The Future Computed ?
