Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Our global impact  
In more than 60 countries around the world, we support nonprofit organizations 
and education institutions in their efforts to create opportunities for all young peo-
ple to become future ready.
Find our nonprofit partners ? 
Encouraging girls to pursue STEM
More than 80 percent of the students benefitting from YouthSpark grants and 
partnerships are from underserved communities, and more than half are female. In 
2018, we set out to understand more about why girls lose interest in STEM and what 
we can do about it.
Explore our research ?
Advancing students with TEALS
In 2017, Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) paired over 1000 
volunteers from over 500 companies with classroom teachers in 344 high schools 
in 29 states and the District of Columbia—bringing computer science education to 
over 12,000 students.
Become a TEALS volunteer ?
FY18 reporting resources Donations and volunteerism factsheet (PDF)
Download a report of our donation and volunteerism investments over the past 
three fiscal years.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting 
our commitments. We collect and provide share these reports in one place for easy 
reference and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore these key resources to learn more about our work empowering people 
around the globe.
Encouraging girls to pursue STEM and computer science
Understand more about why girls lose interest in STEM and what we can do about 
it.
Review the research ?
Career pathways
Creating opportunities for everyone to succeed in the digital economy.
Learn more about digital skills ?
Microsoft Philanthropies
We believe technology can provide endless opportunity and Microsoft Philanthro-
pies works to create a future where everyone has access to these opportunities.
Explore our philanthropic work ? 
