Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Accessibility
At Microsoft, we believe there is no limit to what people can achieve. Especially 
when technology reflects the diversity of its users and is accessible to all.
Our commitment and approach Microsoft is committed to designing products and services that can be used by 
everyone.
Over one billion people in the world have a disability. We’re passionate about 
ensuring that our products and services are designed for all people. The Microsoft 
Accessibility Standards are a company-wide policy that drives consideration for 
accessibility into every stage of production, including design, development, evalua-
tion, and release.
We’ve found that many of our accessibility-focused innovations and features allow 
us to deliver richer, more flexible experiences for a wider range of users—not just 
those with disabilities. We’re committed to transparency, accountability, and inclu-
sion in our products and our culture, and we’re deeply inspired by the opportunity 
to work with people across the globe to explore what’s possible.
FY18 highlights We’re building a diverse workforce through inclusive hiring programs and creating 
products that work for everyone.
 
 
Expanding accessibility features 
We are committed to delivering technologies that empower all people to achieve 
more and have released significant accessibility enhancements in our latest 
products.
Discover the new features ?
Driving innovation 
We continue to push the limits of what’s possible with AI to empower empower 
people with disabilities through new innovations such as Seeing AI, Eye Control on 
Windows 10, Xbox Adaptive Controller, and Translator.
Explore AI for Accessibility ?
Inclusive hiring programs 
To build the best products for everyone, we need to have a diverse and inclusive 
workforce. Our inclusive hiring programs work to make that happen.
Learn about our hiring programs ?
