Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
make this vision a reality. We donated more than $1.4 billion in software and ser-
vices in fiscal 2018, via Microsoft Philanthropies, helping nonprofits get access to 
the technology they need to drive greater impact, and in calendar year 2017 our 
employees donated a record $158 million (including company match) through our 
employee giving program to support nonprofits in local communities.
We are putting AI tools into the hands of change-makers to address society’s most 
pressing challenges with new programs like AI for Earth, a five-year, $50M commit-
ment to environmental sustainability, and AI for Accessibility to benefit the more 
than 1 billion people with disabilities around the world. I am inspired by how teams 
across Microsoft are galvanized around inclusive design and accessibility — and 
producing tangible results, with new features and offerings for Microsoft 365, Office 
365, Windows and Xbox designed to meet the needs of people with disabilities.
Finally, we know that the jobs of today will not be the jobs of tomorrow and are 
investing to provide today’s workforce and future generations with the digital skills 
they will need to succeed, partnering with nonprofit organizations across 54 coun-
tries to provide computer science learning experiences to millions of young people 
around the world and expanding our TEALS program in high schools across the U.S.
I’m proud of our progress, and I’m proud of the more than 100,000 Microsoft em-
ployees around the world who are focused on our customers’ success in this new 
era. We have long recognized that the health, wellbeing and diversity of our em-
ployees help Microsoft succeed. That’s why we provide industry-leading benefits for 
our employees, including comprehensive health and wellness programs for families, 
paid vacation, paid sick leave and paid time off for new parents. We were one of the 
first companies to require our U.S. suppliers doing substantial business with us to 
provide paid time off for their employees. And this year we took a further step to 
ensure that these suppliers also provide their employees with paid parental leave.
Over the past year, we have made progress in building a diverse and inclusive 
culture where everyone can do their best work. Since FY16, we have nearly doubled 
the number of women corporate vice presidents at Microsoft — both overall and in 
technical roles. We’ve increased African American/Black and Hispanic/Latino repre-
sentation by 33 percent. And this past fiscal year more than half of our U.S. interns 
were women or African American/Black and Hispanic/Latino. We must keep pushing 
to do more, and representation is only one measure of progress. Creating a diverse 
and inclusive workplace at Microsoft is everyone’s job. And this year we increased 
our commitment, ensuring that every leader and employee prioritizes diversity and 
inclusion as part of our annual performance review process.
In closing, we will continue to create local opportunity, growth and impact in every 
community and country around the world. We will continue to invest in the largest 
growth opportunities and innovate boldly to serve our customers. We will continue 
to help our customers build digital capability, so they can grow and thrive — to-
day and long into the future. We will continue to work to instill trust in technology 
across everything we do, to advocate for customer privacy, drive industry-wide 
cybersecurity initiatives and champion ethical AI. And we will continue to transform 
our culture to reflect the diverse customers we serve around the world, while hold-
ing fast to our timeless values.
