Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 45
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Local engagement
We engage in rural and urban communities around the globe to bring greater eco-
nomic opportunities through the power of technology.
Our commitment and approach We engage communities at a local level to bring greater economic opportunities 
through the power of technology.
Microsoft TechSpark
Microsoft TechSpark is a national civic initiative to foster greater opportunity and 
job creation in communities outside of major metropolitan centers in the United 
States. We are developing long-term community partnerships to address their 
unique needs, create a future-ready workforce, and be a catalyst for economic op-
portunity for all Americans. 
The TechSpark initiative focuses on five areas: digital transformation, digital skills 
and computer science education, career pathways, rural broadband, and support 
for nonprofits. We will also support a signature project in each community—a major 
investment designed to help accelerate transformation.
Initially, we are focusing on deep partnership in six communities: Fargo, North 
Dakota; El Paso, Texas; Southern Virginia; the North Central Basin of Washington; 
Northeast Wisconsin; and Cheyenne, Wyoming.
Microsoft Cities
We strive to ensure that our participation in the political process is open, transpar-
ent, and based on reasons that are clear and justifiable to our shareholders and 
the public. Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political 
process in a variety of ways.
• Program engagement: We join corporate government affairs programs designed to educate and 
influence elected officials on key public policy issues related to our business. 
• Support: We give individual political employee donations through the Microsoft Political Action 
Committee (MSPAC). 
• Transparency: We’re transparent about data collection and use to allow users to make informed 
decisions.
• Collective action: We help to advance our business objectives through memberships in trade 
associations.
Policy agenda
Microsoft Cities works in 10 cities around the United States to strengthen metro-
politan communities and foster civic innovation for public good. Our Cities work 
focuses on education and training, economic development, sustainability, criminal 
justice, accessibility, transportation, and other local priorities. We will look to apply 
technology and data to advance the effectiveness and awareness of local initiatives 
and priorities. Through nonprofit, government, and organizational partnerships, 
the team strives to actively collaborate on work that has a sustained and scalable 
impact on the lives of individuals.
