Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Empowering our 
employees
At Microsoft, we’re focused on bringing out the best in people, supporting their 
goals, and allowing them to find deep meaning in their work.
Our commitment and approach At Microsoft, we strive to create a respectful, rewarding, diverse, and inclusive work 
environment that enables our employees to create products and services that help 
others achieve more.
Our culture
One of the most important drivers of our success is our culture. We fundamentally 
believe that we need a growth mindset culture. This starts with the belief that every-
one can grow and develop; potential is nurtured, not predetermined; and anyone 
can change their mindset.
Learn more about our mission and culture ?
Respecting human rights
Our Global Human Rights Statement, and participation as a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact, demonstrate our commitment to respecting the following human 
rights covenants and declarations:
Universal Declaration of Human Rights ?
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ?
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights ?
International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work* ?
Total rewards
We develop dynamic, sustainable, and strategic programs that generate trust in our 
employees and enable them to do their best work. These programs reinforce our 
culture and values. The result is a global performance and development approach 
that fosters our growth mindset culture, competitive compensation that proactively 
ensures equitable pay by role, and distinctive benefits that delight our employees.
Learn more about our benefits ?
Diversity and inclusion
At Microsoft, Global Diversity & Inclusion is more than a program, it is a core aspect 
of our evolving culture that helps us fulfill our mission. We seek out different per-
spectives that represent various aspects of the world around us and each employee 
is accountable to actively learn and engage each other’s strengths, experiences, and 
viewpoints to inform, challenge, and stretch our thinking. As a result, we create rich-
er work experiences, stronger ideas, more impactful products, and better customer 
experiences.
Learn more about global diversity and inclusion at Microsoft ?
