Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
More than 1 million developers have already used our Cognitive Services to quickly 
and easily create AI applications. Our Azure Bot Service has nearly 300,000 develop-
ers, and we are driving newadvances in our underlying cloud infrastructure, building 
the world’s first AI supercomputer in Azure. Microsoft Translator brings AI-powered 
translation to developers where their data is, whether in the cloud or on the edge. 
Our pending acquisition of GitHub recognizes the increasingly vital role developers 
will play in value creation and growth across every industry, and will enable us to 
bring our tools and services to new audiences while enabling GitHub to grow and 
retain its developer-first ethos.
Gaming
We are pursuing an expansive opportunity in gaming — from the way games are 
created and distributed to how they are played and viewed — surpassing $10 billion 
in revenue this year for the first time. We are investing aggressively in content, 
community and cloud services across every endpoint to expand usage and deepen 
engagement with gamers. Xbox Live now has 57 million monthly active users, and 
we are investing in new services like Mixer — which blurs the line between watching 
and playing — and Game Pass, our new unlimited subscription service. The addition 
of five new gaming studios this year bolsters our first-party content development to 
support our fast-growing gaming services. And our acquisition of PlayFab acceler-
ates our vision to build a world-class cloud platform for the gaming industry across 
mobile, PC and console. I’m excited about our opportunity in the fast-growing $100 
billion gaming market and what’s to come.
At a time when digital technology is transforming every industry and every part of 
our daily life and work, our customers are increasingly looking for a partner whose 
business interests are fundamentally aligned with their own. At Microsoft, our cus-
tomers’ interests are core to our success. That is what engenders trust.
This commitment extends to instilling trust in technology across everything we do. 
We believe that privacy is a fundamental human right, which is why compliance is 
deeply embedded in all our processes and practices. We extended the data subject 
rights that are at the heart of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to all our 
customers around the world, not just those in the European Union, and advocated 
for the passage of the CLOUD Act in the U.S.
Cybersecurity is the central challenge of the digital age, and we are innovating to 
provide end-to-end security for our customers with security operations at global 
scale that analyze more than 6.5 trillion security signals each day, enterprise-class 
technology, and broad cybersecurity partnerships for an increasingly complex 
and heterogeneous world. We led the Cybersecurity Tech Accord, which has been 
signed by 61 global organizations, and are calling on governments to do more 
to make the internet safe. We announced the Defending Democracy Program to 
work with governments around the world to help safeguard voting, and introduced 
AccountGuard to offer advanced cybersecurity protections to political campaigns in 
the U.S.
And, as we make advancements in AI, we are asking ourselves tough questions — 
like not only what computers can do, but what should they do. That’s why we are 
investing in tools for detecting and addressing bias in AI systems and advocating 
for thoughtful government regulation.
We also have a responsibility as a company to empower everyone to fully partici-
pate in our society and economy using technology. We are working with govern-
ments, the private sector and local nonprofit organizations around the world to
Trust and responsibility
