Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 25
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Our commitment and approach We set high standards for our suppliers and collaborate with them to positively 
impact their workers, their local communities, and their business operations.
Microsoft has relationships with thousands of suppliers around the globe, span-
ning both hardware suppliers that manufacture our devices and components, and 
indirect suppliers that provide everything from advertising services to building 
construction and maintenance.
We expect all suppliers who do business with Microsoft to uphold the human rights, 
labor, health and safety, environmental, and business ethics practices prescribed in 
our Supplier Code of Conduct. This code aligns with, and exceeds, the Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA), formerly Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, responsi-
ble supply chain standards. The Supplier Code of Conduct is included in all our sup-
plier contracts and Microsoft Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) require-
ments are also incorporated into our hardware and packaging supplier contracts.
Since 2005, Microsoft Devices operated an industry-leading Responsible Sourc-
ing, formerly Social and Environmental Accountability, program to ensure that our 
hardware and packaging suppliers conform to our Supplier Code of Conduct and 
additional device-related requirements for living conditions, safe working practices, 
and environmental, health, and safety protection.
The Microsoft Global Procurement Group created a formal responsible sourcing 
function in 2013 to consolidate and enhance its responsible sourcing activities with 
our indirect suppliers.
We advance our responsible sourcing commitments through:
• Analysis of risks and opportunities
• Assurance and accountability 
• Capacity building 
• Shared value and advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals set by the UN to improve 
people’s quality of life, protect the environment, and foster equitable growth.
Learn more about our approach to responsible sourcing ?
Responsible sourcing
At Microsoft, we work to ensure that our suppliers are socially, legally, and ethically 
responsible—and treat the people who work for them fairly and with dignity.
