Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 43
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Creating a safer digital world 
As technology continues to reshape the world, the conflicts between nations are no 
longer confined to air, land, and sea. The future of internet cybersecurity will require 
the public and private sector working together over many years.
Learn more in the blog ?
CPA-Zicklin Index 
In 2018, the CPA-Zicklin Index named Microsoft as a “Trendsetter” among the S&P 
500 for our leadership in political disclosure and accountability.
Learn more about the index ?
FY18 reporting resources US Federal and State advocacy spending (PDF)
Microsoft regularly files and publishes downloadable reports that detail our public 
policy advocacy activities. Our disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expens-
es, and trade association dues spent on advocacy.
MSPAC and corporate political spending
An outside ethics counsel reviews and approves all Microsoft Political Action Com-
mittee (MSPAC) and corporate political giving activities, filings, reports, and mate-
rials. We publish MSPAC and corporate political spending reports semi-annually on 
our CSR reports hub.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Trade associations expenditures
Microsoft is a member of many trade associations (organized under section 501(c)
(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) in the US to help advance our public policy 
agenda and related business goals. We publicly disclose and annually update a list 
of those trade associations to which Microsoft pays dues and makes other expen-
ditures through our Corporate, External and Legal Affairs (CELA) group. Each year, 
Microsoft inquires and makes a reasonable effort to obtain information about what 
portion of the company’s dues or payments were used for lobbying expenditures 
or political contributions from those associations where our dues and other expen-
ditures total $25,000 or more. Current and archived reports are published on our 
CSR reports hub.
Get the bigger picture Explore key resources to learn more about our engagement in the public policy 
process.
A Cloud for Global Good
Our policy roadmap covers a range of policy areas and provides a comprehensive 
set of recommendations and considerations mapped to a trusted, responsible, and 
inclusive cloud.
Visit the cloud policy roadmap ?
