Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
FY18 reporting resources Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Download our report to learn about the actions we’re taking to prevent modern 
slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain.
Devices sustainability report (PDF)
See the key results of our Responsible Sourcing, and Social and Environmental 
Accountability audits and assessments in the downloadable FY18 Devices 
sustainability report.
Conflict Minerals Report (PDF)
Download the detailed results of our latest annual conflict minerals due diligence 
process and findings.
Production Supplier List (PDF)
Each year, Microsoft publishes a downloadable list of our top 100 production suppli-
ers for our commercially available devices.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Get the bigger picture Explore more responsible sourcing resources.
Responsible sourcing
Get more detailed information on the policies and programs related to our commit-
ment to responsible sourcing.
Learn about the programs ?
Microsoft Supplier Code of Conduct  
Access our Supplier Code of Conduct in multiple languages and explore links to 
related resources including our Supplier Code of Conduct training program.
Explore our supplier standards ?
Raw materials policy 
Learn more about our raw materials sourcing strategy and associated programs.
? Download PDF about our policy
Supplier diversity
Get an overview of our Supplier Diversity Program and access links to resources, 
including a tool for diverse suppliers to register their interest in working with Micro-
soft.
Learn about supplier diversity ?
Microsoft sustainable devices
Explore our approach and commitment to producing environmentally sustainable 
devices.
Learn about sustainable devices ?
