Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
Transparent reporting
We want to help customers make informed choices about our products and 
services and ensure stakeholders can evaluate our corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) commitments.
About our report
Standards
UN Global Compact Index
We’ve designed our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report to share infor-
mation about how we’re making the world a better place. The digital report offers 
comparable year-over-year data about our progress and provides quick links to 
additional resources to help tell a comprehensive story. In his annual shareholder 
letter, Satya Nadella, addresses our business and social impacts and sets the stage 
for both the 2018 CSR and Financial annual reports. Unless otherwise stated, the 
information on this report covers all of the Microsoft global operations during the 
2018 fiscal year (July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018).
To make this information consumable for many audiences, we’ve designed our re-
port first and foremost for digital display (see our online CSR Report), yet also offer 
this PDF version to provide an additional access option for our stakeholders. Please 
see the Reports hub for a single-page view of all of the supplemental reports refer-
enced throughout our comprehensive report PDF. 
This report contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sus-
tainability Reporting Standards, which were used to prepare the content included. 
Please see our GRI Index for detailed data and additional information.
The human rights-related disclosures are based on the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework (RAFI). In addition, this report 
serves as the Microsoft annual Communication on Progress (COP) under the United 
Nations (UN) Global Compact. The following table describes the location of content 
relevant to each of the ten UN Global Compact principles.
Human Rights
Principle 1:
Principle 2:
Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Learn how we are empowering our employees, protecting human rights, and ensuring the responsible 
sourcing of all our products and materials as part of our commitment to these human rights principles.
