Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
FY18 reporting resources Law Enforcement Requests Report
This semi-annual report provides information about the legal demands for 
customer data we receive from law enforcement agencies around the world, as well 
as our responses to them.  
US National Security Orders Report
This semi-annual report provides the data we’re legally allowed to share about 
demands for customer data we receive from the US government pursuant to 
national security laws, as well as our responses to them.
Reports hub
Microsoft provides disclosures to help stakeholders evaluate how we’re meeting our 
commitments. We collect and share these reports in one place for easy reference 
and download.
2018 Global Index Reporting Initiative Index
The 2018 report content contains disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
New Data Protection Officer 
In March 2018, Microsoft appointed Steve May as its European Data Protection 
Officer (DPO). In his role Steve represents our customers’ data protection needs 
and rights in assessing Microsoft’s data processing and supports engagements 
with European regulators relating to data protection matters.
Learn more in the blog ?
Improved privacy dashboard 
Microsoft added new capabilities to its web-based privacy dashboard that allows 
users to see and control their online activity data. The dashboard allows users to 
view—and choose to clear—data Microsoft collects, including voice, apps and 
services, browsing & search history, and location activity.
Visit the privacy dashboard ?
The Future Computed 
We released a new book, The Future Computed: Artificial Intelligence and its role in 
society. In the book, we identify six ethical principles—fairness, reliability and safety, 
privacy and security, inclusivity, transparency, and accountability—to guide the 
development and use of AI. 
Learn more about the book ?
