Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22
Our approach Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesEmpowering people
Career pathways
As technology transforms the world, it is also reshaping the way we work and 
increasing the skills gap. In the United States, nearly two-thirds of companies report 
having positions for which they cannot find qualified applicants, and millions are 
under- or unemployed. To meet the challenge, we must create a skills-based labor 
market that connects people and employers in new ways. Our approach includes:
• Increasing access to learning resources
• Engaging employers
• Generating excitement and demand for computer science education
To succeed in the modern economy, workers need access to learning resources to gain the 
skills required for in-demand jobs. LinkedIn Learning enables lifelong learning while connecting 
workers to jobs.
Access LinkedIn Learning ?
Skills-based hiring and apprenticeships help companies find and retain qualified people by 
increasing employer connections to skilled candidates and creating pathways for workers.
Learn about Microsoft apprenticeships ?
We work with more than 150 nonprofit organizations across 60 countries to help engage over 
three million young people with computer science learning experiences. Together with our 
partners, we’re ensuring young people are ready for the future, especially those who might not 
otherwise have access to developing these critical skills.
Find our partners ?
Learn more about our impact ?
• Advocating for change
At Microsoft, we’re working toward scalable solutions and partnerships that can be replicated 
successfully across the globe, including our partnership with Lumina Foundation and the 
Credential EngineTM.
Learn more about credentialing ?
Learn more about our approach to career pathways ?
FY18 highlights Discover how Microsoft creates opportunities for everyone to succeed in the digital 
economy.
Pathways to 21st century jobs
In partnership with the Markle Foundation, Microsoft is helping 50,000 workers 
adapt to the changing workplace by providing access to in-demand skills and job 
opportunities. We also provide states and employers with the tools and data they 
need to create and sustain skills-based hiring initiatives.
Learn more about our efforts ?
