Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9
Empowering people Strengthening communities Protecting our planet ResourcesOur approach
ing ourselves to be more customer obsessed, to be more diverse and inclusive, and 
to operate as One Microsoft — ultimately to make a bigger difference in the world.
One of the greatest privileges I have as CEO of Microsoft is seeing firsthand the 
incredible impact our technologies have on people and organizations around the 
world. Our ecosystem touches the lives of billions of people every single day, creat-
ing new opportunity for our customers and partners and positively impacting local 
communities.
In Kenya, our partner M-KOPA Solar has connected hundreds of thousands of 
homes across sub-Saharan Africa to solar power for the first time using the Micro-
soft Cloud, innovating with a pay-as-you-go model that helps households living on 
less than $2 a day establish a credit history. In Arizona, we are applying Dynamics 
365 to improve outcomes among one of the state’s most vulnerable populations — 
the more than 15,000 children in foster care. In Poland, MedApp is using HoloLens 
to help cardiologists visualize a patient’s heart as it beats — in real time — reducing 
the amount of time they then need to perform open-heart surgery. In Kona, Hawaii, 
Jack’s Diving Locker is using Microsoft 365 to connect its 50 employees across land 
and sea so that they can focus on what they do best — protect pristine coral reefs 
and take people diving. In Washington state, Karrick Johnson, an 8-year-old with 
dyslexia, avoided reading in class until he started using our Learning Tools. And in 
Cambodia, underserved children in rural communities are learning to code with 
Minecraft, opening doors to futures that would have previously been unimaginable.
Across the globe, enterprise customers in every industry — from iconic brands like 
Coca-Cola Company and Chevron Corporation to ZF Group, a car parts manufac-
turer in Germany — are using our technology to build their own digital capability so 
they can thrive in a world where every company is a software company. Walmart — 
the world’s largest company by revenue, and its biggest private employer — chose 
Azure and Microsoft 365 to fuel its digital transformation, transforming the shop-
ping experience for customers and empowering their more than 2 million associates 
to do their best work.
In sum, our platforms create broad surplus everywhere, from the farmer who is 
able to apply precision agriculture to conserve resources and increase yields, to the 
hospital that is able to lower the cost of healthcare and improve patient outcomes, 
to the largest companies of the world reaching new customers in new markets.
The breadth and depth of our mission and the trust customers are placing in us to 
power their digital transformation enable us to have this broad impact — and it is 
fueling our results. 
In fiscal 2018, we delivered $110.4 billion in revenue and $35.1 billion in operating 
income and returned $21.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share 
repurchases.
Our commercial cloud business delivered more than $23 billion in revenue, exceed-
ing the ambitious goal we had set to achieve $20 billion in annualized commercial 
cloud revenue by the end of fiscal 2018, nine months ahead of schedule. In addition, 
we expanded our commercial cloud gross margin to 57 percent, up 7 points year-
over-year.
Opportunity and impact
Results and progress
