Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Employee giving 
Microsoft employees are passionate about giving time, money, and skill to address 
the issues facing our world. It’s part of our culture and how we live our mission. The 
employee giving program focuses on giving in three 
primary ways:
• Money: Our employees support a wide range of organizations they feel personally connected to, 
and in the United States, Microsoft matches those donations dollar-for-dollar.
• Time: Many of our employees help nonprofits and schools achieve their missions faster by do-
nating their time and professional skills. Microsoft matches every volunteer hour with a monetary 
donation to the organization.
• Products: When our employees purchase our products and donate them to nonprofits, Microsoft 
matches these in-kind donations, amplifying the impact of our technology. 
Check out our employees in action ?
We’ve surpassed our commitment to nonprofit cloud services donations, and our 
employees have raised record breaking donation amounts for global nonprofits.
‘No one should be left behind’ 
In 2016, Microsoft Philanthropies committed to donating $1 billion in cloud com-
puting resources to 70,000 nonprofit organizations over three years. By the end 
of 2017, we’d surpassed that goal and committed to service more than 300,000 
nonprofits around the globe. 
Explore our impact letter ?
Technology for Social Impact
We see the potential for nonprofits to leverage digital innovation to address the 
world’s most pressing issues. In 2017, we announced our Technology for Social 
Impact group which will be dedicated to serving nonprofit organizations worldwide 
and helping them move to the cloud.
Learn more about the group ? 
Medical Teams International
Medical Teams International leverages an app built on Azure to revolutionize the 
way that it works and dramatically increase the speed and accuracy of diagnosis 
and treatment for more than 1 million patients in Uganda. 
Learn more about MTI ?
Employee giving and volunteerism
Microsoft matches employee donations of time and money to nonprofit organi-
zations of their choice. In 2017, employees raised a record-breaking $150 million 
(including company match)—bringing total giving since 1983 to more than $1 billion 
for nonprofits and schools around the globe. 
Learn more about employee giving ?
FY18 highlights
