Microsoft 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 42
Our approach Empowering people Protecting our planet ResourcesStrengthening communities
Microsoft Political Action Committee (MSPAC)
The Microsoft Political Action Committee (MSPAC) Steering Committee, a bipartisan 
committee of federal and state government affairs professionals, is responsible for 
oversight and day-to-day decision making related to political spending. Oversight 
of the committee includes disbursements from MSPAC and permissible employee 
and shareholder donations made by the program.
Engagement Principles
Microsoft has adopted Principles for Engagement in the Public Policy Process in 
the United States. These principles address issues specific to the US political and 
fundraising system.
Under these policies, we commit to disclosing a semi-annual list of election cam-
paign expenditures, including financial and in-kind contributions by the company 
and MSPAC to candidates, political parties, political committees, and other political-
ly active tax-exempt organizations, such as those organized under Internal Revenue 
Code section 501(c)(4), as defined by applicable laws.
To uphold our commitment to the transparency of our political spending and 
contributions, we do not make corporate contributions to any non-candidate or 
non-party political committees organized under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue 
Code, which are formed solely to influence elections. We also make no independent 
political expenditures or electioneering communications, as permitted under the US 
Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling, and we inform our trade associations that 
no Microsoft funds may pay for their independent expenditures or electioneering 
communications.
Transparency in reporting
Microsoft regularly files and publishes reports that detail our public policy advoca-
cy activities. Our disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expenses, and trade 
association dues spent on advocacy. Please see FY18 reporting resources below.
FY18 highlights Microsoft and our employees participate in the United States political process in a 
variety of ways.
Defending Democracy Program 
In FY18, we announced the Defending Democracy Program to work with govern-
ments globally to help safeguard political campaigns and voting.
Learn about our program ?
The CLOUD Act—a big step forward 
The cloud has made privacy issues a practical necessity for technology. We rec-
ognize and accept the responsibility to help protect public safety and preserve 
personal privacy.
Learn more about our approach ?
A Cloud for Global Good
In 2018, we released an updated Cloud for Global Good, a policy road map for 
governments, industry, and civil society to consider as they realize the opportunities 
and address the challenges presented by the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Learn about the updated roadmap ?
