Data Security
Data	Leakage	Prevention
Infrastructure Security
Server Security Hardware Security Network Security Data Center Security
Business Operations Security
Transaction Security
Account Security
Spam	Prevention
Fraud	Prevention
Content Security
Platform Security
Mobile Security
Web Security PC	Security
IoT Security
Blockchain Security System Security
Multi-layer security system
Cybersecurity continued
We have developed 
industry-leading 
cybersecurity technology 
and practices that safeguard 
our e-commerce platforms. 
We recognize that consumers 
and merchants rely on us  
to protect their data on 
our platforms to ensure 
business sustainability. 
We also run the leading cloud computing 
service in China that many other businesses 
depend on to safely store data and process 
transactions,	and	our network	security	
must be	designed	to	withstand	attempted	
intrusions.
We invest heavily and strategically in 
proprietary systems, cutting-edge 
technology, and R&D to build and safeguard 
a secure and protected environment across 
all our business units, in related companies 
and with ecosystem partners. Our multi-layer 
security system provides a comprehensive 
data security infrastructure for continuous 
monitoring and system protection 
throughout all platforms.
Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO), supported 
by our	Chief	Technology	Officer	(CTO),	is	
responsible for cybersecurity. Both the CRO 
and CTO	directly	report	to	our	CEO.	Our	
CRO oversees	the	integrity	of	our	IT	system,	
ensuring	that	our systems	are	sound	and	
well-defended. Our cybersecurity teams, 
who	report	to	the CRO,	focus	on	security	
standards, processes and breach avoidance. 
We also have a Cybersecurity and Data 
Protection	Committee	chaired	by	the	CRO	
that oversees data security issues for all 
platforms and products across the Group. 
On a continual basis, our CRO’s cybersecurity 
team provides a comprehensive framework 
of compliance training, risk assessment and 
security testing to the CTO and other teams 
across our platform. The CRO team also 
provides continuous monitoring of potential 
breaches or incidents, including before an 
incident (through risk assessment), during an 
incident (through intrusion interception), and 
after an incident (with source tracking of data 
breach). We also place security teams in each 
functional department to help implement 
Alibaba’s security strategy and manage daily 
security issues. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 26
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTION?|?CYBERSECURITY?|?DATA PROTECTION?|
