Intellectual Property  
Rights Protection 
We are proactive in our 
approach, aiming to identify 
problems early before we 
receive complaints. Our  
IP Protection Department  
is charged with the critical 
responsibility of maintaining 
a healthy and dynamic 
business environment 
throughout Alibaba’s 
e-commerce ecosystem. 
This unit is led by our Chief Risk Officer, who 
is	also	our	Chief	Platform	Governance	Officer,	
and she reports directly to our CEO. Over  
300 professionals work in this business unit 
including senior global team members who 
communicate with global rights holders  
and brand associations on a regular basis.
To effectively protect the rights of brand 
owners on our large online platform,  
we make extensive use of cutting edge, 
proprietary technology. Our proactive 
monitoring and takedown system for 
problematic listings is driven by sophisticated 
data-base algorithms and textual analysis 
and photo, optical character and behavior 
recognition technologies. Our philosophy 
is to	partner	with	brands,	understand	their	
particular product characteristics, and utilize 
our technology to proactively monitor our 
platforms. Then, we make it easy for brands 
to report	and	track	complaints	–	which	over	
time has allowed us to continually improve 
our	IP	Protection	Program.
Brands and brand owners are key 
constituents of our platform. We proactively 
established the Alibaba Anti-Counterfeiting 
Alliance (“AACA” or the “Alliance”) in January 
2017. AACA’s 105 brand members include 
Adidas,	P&G,	Mars,	Adobe,	Danone,	Hasbro,	
Samsung, and L’Oreal. With their support, the 
Alliance is effectively using internet technology 
and	data	to	combat	IP	infringement	more	
efficiently and transparently. We recently 
launched	a	program	of	IP	Protection	
Roadshows in countries around the world 
where we present to global brands about the 
tools	Alibaba	offers	to	fight	IP	infringement.	
Additionally, we have a scheme to support 
small brands who may not have the same 
level of resources to protect their original 
designs or patents. 
Working with brands is not enough. 
We also take	the	fight	offline	to	work	 
with trade associations, governments and 
law enforcement agencies in the fight to 
protect IPR.	Industry	groups	we	work	with	
come from the automotive, digital content, 
apparel, electronics, luxury goods, food, 
pharmaceutical, and personal care sectors. 
We also partner with law enforcement 
agencies to provide leads of suspected  
illicit manufacturing facilities. We believe it’s 
equally	important	to	attack	the	bad	actors	
at the	source	in	the	physical	world.	The	goal	 
is to encourage all parties to collaboratively 
fight counterfeiting through communication 
and information exchange. 
We	openly	communicate	our	IPR	efforts	
to the public	by	publishing	an	Intellectual 
Property Rights Protection Annual Report 
and Intellectual Property Rights Protection 
Handbook. We regularly report our progress in 
this program; our results speak for themselves.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 18
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTION?|?CYBERSECURITY?|?DATA PROTECTION?|
