Asset Ownership in 
Compliance with Regulations 
In order to comply with 
relevant laws, rules and 
regulations in China 
governing foreign investment 
in certain types of internet 
businesses, we use a 
corporate structure 
similar to that adopted 
by many peer companies 
in our industry. 
Our	Internet	Content	Provider	Licenses	
required	to	operate	certain	internet	
businesses in China are held by entities 
whose direct or indirect owners are 
Chinese nationals	that	are	either	founders	
or employees	of	Alibaba	or	members	of	
the Alibaba	Partnership.	
Alibaba Group has entered into a series 
of agreements	with	such	entities,	that	
under accounting	rules	are	referred	to	
as “variable	interest	entities”	or	VIEs,	and	
their Chinese national owners, such that 
Alibaba consolidates the VIEs on its financial 
statements because Alibaba, among other 
things, (i) bears the economic risk and 
benefits of the VIEs, (ii) through contracts 
such as technology and licensing agreements, 
is entitled to substantially all of the profits 
of the	VIEs,	(iii)	has	an	exclusive	option	to	
acquire	the	shares	or	assets	in	such	VIEs	if	
permitted by law, and (iv) holds the voting 
proxy with respect to such VIEs.
We believe that we have structured our VIEs 
to be best-in-class from the point of view of 
financial integrity, economic participation, 
asset security and control over free cash  
flow of the business. As of the end of Fiscal 
2018 (March year-end), assets in the VIEs  
in aggregate do not exceed 8% of the  
total assets of Alibaba Group, and the  
VIEs generated approximately 13% of 
consolidated group revenues and less than 
5% in consolidated operating cash flows 
during the then-ended fiscal year. In other 
words, the vast majority of Alibaba Group’s 
assets, revenues and cash flow belong to 
wholly owned entities of Alibaba Group in 
which we have sole legal title and control. 
In addition,	most	of	the	critical	assets	of	
our business,	such	as	user	data,	customer	
contracts, intellectual property, technology 
infrastructure and software source code 
are held	in	controlled	or	wholly–owned	
subsidiaries of Alibaba Group. 
Subject to foreign currency regulations 
in China,	our	shareholders	have	direct	
access to	substantial	cash	flows	generated	
by Alibaba Group’s businesses because 
much	of our	assets	and	business	activities	
that generate cash flow are owned by or 
conducted through subsidiaries that are 
controlled or wholly owned by Alibaba 
Group. Access to cash flow is a key feature 
that rating agencies take into consideration 
when assigning a credit rating. Alibaba 
Group has the best credit rating (A1 by 
Moody’s/A+	by	S&P/A+	by	Fitch)	among	
all private	Asian	corporate	issuers.	
MINIMAL REVENUES FROM VIEs
87% 13% VIEs (13%)
Wholly owned  
entities (87%)
MINIMAL ASSETS IN VIEs
92% 8% Assets in VIEs (8%)
Assets not held 
in VIEs (92%)
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 14
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
