The Role of the Alibaba Partnership
The Alibaba Partnership (the 
“Partnership”) is at the heart 
of our company culture and 
identity. Currently comprised 
of 36 senior management 
leaders who oversee the 
various aspects of the 
Alibaba Digital Economy, the 
Partnership has had a clear 
purpose since it was formed 
in 2010: to sustain the culture 
of the founders of Alibaba  
in order to ensure that we 
stay on course in defining 
and executing our mission, 
vision and values.
HOW THE ALIBABA 
PARTNERSHIP OPERATES
Living Body: The	Alibaba	Partnership	is	 
a dynamic group of people that operates  
as a living body, adding new blood through 
the admission of new partners each year. 
Partners	are	required	to	retire	from	the	
Partnership	if	they	are	no	longer	contributing	
to the work of growing the Alibaba Digital 
Economy.	Since	its	founding,	the	Partnership	
has expanded from the admission of new 
partners each year; currently there are  
36	members	of	the	Partnership.	
Partnership Charter:	The	Partnership	is	
governed	by	a	Partnership	agreement	(the	
“Partnership	Charter”)	and	operates	under	
principles, policies and procedures that have 
evolved with our business. The key provisions 
of	the	Partnership	Charter	address,	among	
other things, the criteria and duties of the 
partners, their right to vote on matters of 
importance	to	the	Partnership,	and	meeting	
quorum	and	voting	procedures.	
Admission of New Partners: The most 
important	element	of	the	Partnership	is	the	
annual process of selecting and admitting 
new	partners	to	the	Partnership.	New	partner	
candidates are selected on the criteria of
• personal character;
• impact on our business;
• demonstrated ability to live  
and evangelize our culture; and
• at least five years tenure of service  
to the Alibaba Digital Economy. 
Admission	of	new	partners	requires	the	
approval of at least 75% of all partners.
Collective Decision-Making:	All	Partnership	
votes are made on a one-partner-one-vote 
basis.	Each	partner	has	a	vote	equal	to	that	 
of any other partner on matters that come  
to	the	Partnership	for	decision:	election	of	
new partners, expulsion of partners, selection 
of	Partnership-nominated	board	members	 
to Alibaba Group, and amendment of the 
Partnership	Charter,	to	name	a	few.
Stock Ownership: Another important 
element	of	the	Partnership	is	that	each	
partner has share ownership in Alibaba 
Group that is substantial relative to their net 
worth. The average partner has no less than  
a majority of their net worth in the shares  
ALIBABA PARTNERSHIP 
COMPOSITION
By Gender
24 Male Partners
12 Female Partners
Female (33%)
Male (67%)
of Alibaba Group. Newly admitted partners 
are awarded shares in the Alibaba Group that 
vest over 10 years, and each partner must 
retain a significant level of share ownership 
that aligns the partners’ interests with the 
stockholders of the company.
Diversity and Experience: Of the 36 current 
partners	of	the	Partnership,	12	partners	(33%)	
are women, and 32 of the partners (89%) have 
been employed within the Alibaba Digital 
Economy for more than 10 years. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 09
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
