Social Impact continued
CREATING JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
By leveraging technology and innovation, the 
Alibaba Digital Economy creates employment 
opportunities for many segments of society. 
Our platforms provide business opportunities 
for merchants as well as for service providers 
in logistics, marketing, consulting, operations 
outsourcing, training and other online and 
mobile commerce professions across the 
value chain. 
According to a recent report by China’s 
Renmin University, Alibaba created 36 million 
jobs in 2017 via its retail ecosystem, including 
14 million jobs for online retailers and 
22 million	jobs	for	upstream	and	downstream	
sectors such as R&D, design, manufacturing 
and logistics. In the fiscal year ended March 
2018, approximately half of the active sellers 
on our China retail marketplaces were 
women. With international expansion of 
our e-commerce	platform	to	Southeast	
Asia, South	Asia	and	parts	of	Eastern	Europe,	
we are bringing job opportunities to these 
regions by enabling local merchants to do 
business online.
We believe that business should be done 
in a socially	responsible	way,	and	our	
management explicitly promotes this 
message to our employees as well as other 
stakeholders. For example, in our core 
e-commerce business, we have launched 
a green	logistics	initiative	that	utilizes	
bio-degradable packaging, tape-free 
boxes and	package	recycling	bins.
Our culture empowers employees at all levels 
to use technology and other capabilities to 
solve social problems. For example, on their 
own initiative, our engineers conceived and 
developed the “Reunion” system for tracking 
and finding missing children in China. The 
platform leverages many widely used mobile 
apps from the Alibaba Digital Economy as  
well as our partners. We are proud of these 
innovations and we believe that our business 
model, culture, and our technological 
capabilities leads us to act in socially 
responsible ways. 
Our business model creates significant 
positive social impact. We are especially 
proud	of	the	following	effects	that our	
business has on society.
Case 
study
“Reunion” System 
for missing children
Using our technological capabilities and our 
employees’ dedication to social issues, our 
engineers developed a system that connects 
our and our partners’ mobile apps to help 
locate missing children across China. The 
‘Reunion’ system leverages Alibaba-operated 
apps	with	hundreds	of millions	of	users	to	
crowd-source information, such as our core 
shopping app Mobile Taobao, our enterprise 
messaging app DingTalk, our map app 
AutoNavi, and our payment app Alipay,  
as well as our partner apps such as Weibo 
(China’s version of Twitter). Since its initial 
launch	in	2016,	this platform	has	helped	 
law enforcement authorities successfully 
locate 3,328 missing children, reflecting a 
97.6%	success	rate.	The “Reunion”	platform	 
has received international attention and 
supports global efforts on child protection. 
Alibaba	hosted	a global	leadership	
conference in 2018 to share the technology 
and concepts behind our “Reunion” platform 
with participation from organizations 
representing	over	20 countries.	
3,328 
Missing children located  
as of May 25, 2018 
 
97.6% 
Success rate
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 38
|?HUMAN CAPITAL?|?SOCIAL IMPACT?|
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
