Our culture values 
meritocracy over hierarchy, 
“outside the box” innovation, 
the spirit of embracing 
change, optimism and 
idealism. We commit 
to maintain a kind and 
respectful environment 
so that everyone at Alibaba 
feels like a family member.
Our values are fundamental to the way we 
operate and how we recruit, evaluate and 
compensate our people. These values are: 
• Customer First – The interests of our 
community of consumers, merchants  
and enterprises must be our first priority. 
• Teamwork – We believe teamwork  
enables ordinary people to achieve 
extraordinary things. 
• Embrace Change – In this fast-changing 
world, we must be flexible, innovative and 
ready to adapt to new business conditions 
in order to maintain sustainability and 
vitality in our business. 
• Integrity – We expect our people to uphold 
the highest standards of honesty and to 
deliver on their commitments. 
• Passion – We expect our people to 
approach everything with fire in their  
belly and never give up on doing what  
they believe is right.
• Commitment – Employees who 
demonstrate perseverance and excellence 
are	richly	rewarded.	Nothing should	be	
taken	for	granted	as we	encourage	our	
people	to	“work happily	and	live	seriously.”	
Human Capital continued
Photo:	Aliway	Platform,	Alibaba’s	Intranet	and	Mobile	Platform
In appraisals, our employees are rated 
on how	well	their	conduct	at	work	reflects	
our six core values in addition to business 
performance, and these value-based ratings 
will affect employee compensation and 
promotion decisions. 
Anchored by our strong values, our human 
capital strategy includes: 
• a strong focus on recruiting, retaining 
and investing	in	best	in	class	technical,	
professional and managerial talent 
throughout the business; 
• nurturing a diverse and empowered 
employee base; 
• continuous training and development 
investments for employees to gain a 
global and	growth-oriented	mindset;	and
• promoting transparency.
Our future area of focus includes more 
recruitment of international talent as well 
as international	training	opportunities	for	
our employees	from	China.	We	also	commit	
to continuing to increase the diversity of 
our employees.	
We talk a lot at Alibaba  
about maintaining a culture  
of humility, openness, and 
equality. The company has 
lots of influence on the 
economy and business in 
China, and extending into the 
world. But that’s a privilege 
and a responsibility. So we 
keep a very close watch 
on culture here – we even 
rank employees in their 
performance appraisals on 
how well they fulfil our values 
of customer first, teamwork, 
embracing change, integrity, 
passion and, commitment. 
JUDY TONG 
Chief People Officer, Alibaba Partner
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 34
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?HUMAN CAPITAL?|?SOCIAL IMPACT?|
