The Role of the Board  
and Board Committees
The Alibaba board is 
responsible for the long-term 
success of the company 
through nominating 
independent directors, 
selecting the chairman 
and chief executive officer, 
monitoring strategy and 
management execution, 
setting senior management 
compensation, and providing 
oversight to the company’s 
financial reporting, internal 
control systems, business 
conduct and code of ethics. 
Our board of directors has established an 
audit committee, a compensation committee 
and a nominating and corporate governance 
committee. All members of our audit committee 
are independent directors. A majority of the 
members of our compensation committee 
and nominating and corporate governance 
committee are independent directors. 
Brief descriptions of these committees 
follow, and more detail can be found in 
our annual	report	on	Form	20-F.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee oversees our 
accounting and financial reporting  
processes and the audits of our financial 
statements; selects, evaluates and 
supervises our independent auditor; 
oversees our internal accounting controls 
and audit procedures; reviews and approves 
related party transactions; oversees 
procedures for employee complaints and 
concerns; and reports regularly to the full 
board of directors. The Audit Committee is 
chaired	by Walter	Kwauk,	an	independent	
director with 25 years of senior leadership 
experience	in	the	audit	industry	with	KPMG.
We	maintain	a	Related	Party	Transaction	
Policy	that	stipulates	that,	unless	otherwise	
pre-approved by our board of directors, 
all related	party	transactions,	including	
transactions involving directors, officers, 
and other	members	of	senior	management,	
must be approved or ratified by the 
Audit Committee.	
We have an internal audit department  
of	29 employees	and	our	head	of	internal	
audit reports	directly	to	the	Audit	Committee.	
The internal audit function conducts 
independent and continuous testing of the 
integrity and robustness of our financial 
reporting, operational system controls, IT 
general controls and design of key policies 
and procedures. Our internal audit staff 
meets	as	frequently	as	twice	a	month	
with the	chair	of	the	Audit	Committee	
and quarterly	with	other	members	of	the	
Audit Committee to review their work.
 
Compensation Committee 
The Compensation Committee oversees 
our compensation	policies;	reviews	the	
performance of our directors and executive 
officers; determines the compensation to our 
executive officers, approves the aggregate 
bonus pool allocated to the partners of the 
Alibaba	Partnership	who	are	our	employees;	
and monitors policies and magnitude of 
equity	incentives	to	our	employees	as	a	
whole. The compensation committee is 
chaired by independent director Jerry Yang, 
co-founder and former chief executive officer 
of Yahoo! Inc.
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee 
The Nomination and Corporate Governance 
Committee recommends independent 
director nominees; reviews board composition 
with regards to characteristics such as 
independence, knowledge, skills, experience 
and diversity; advises the board on corporate 
governance and compliance matters. The 
nominating and governance committee is 
chaired by our board chairman Jack Ma. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 12
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
