The Role of the Alibaba Partnership continued
BOARD COMPOSITION
Based on our articles of association,  
the	Alibaba	Partnership	has	the	right	to	
nominate a majority of the board of directors 
of	Alibaba	Group,	although	the	Partnership	
may choose not to fully exercise that  
right. Board candidates nominated by the 
Partnership,	as	well	as	independent	directors	
recommended by the board’s nominating  
and corporate governance committee, are 
elected to the board by the majority vote  
of all of Alibaba Group’s shareholders. 
Currently, five of the eleven board  
members (Jack Ma, Joe Tsai, Daniel Zhang,  
Eric Jing and Michael Evans) are nominated  
by	the	Partnership,	five	of	the	board	
members (C.H. Tung, Walter Kwauk, Jerry 
Yang, Börje Ekholm and Wan Ling Martello) 
are independent directors nominated by  
the Board’s nominating and corporate 
governance committee, and one director 
(Masayoshi Son) is nominated by SoftBank 
Group which has been a long-term investor 
in Alibaba	Group	since	2000.	
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
AND LEADERSHIP SUCCESSION
One of the most important roles of public 
company boards is the selection and 
appointment of their company’s senior 
leadership, in particular the chairman and 
chief	executive	officer.	Through	Partnership-
nominated	directors,	the	Partnership	 
plays a crucial role in advising our Board  
in developing senior management talent  
from within and planning for leadership 
succession. This process reduces the risk of 
leaving succession management to chance.
The continuous cultivation and annual 
selection process of admitting new partners 
into	the	Partnership	is	the	vehicle	for	us	to	
identify talented individuals throughout  
our organization who exemplify our culture 
and embody	the	required	leadership	traits	
we look	for	in	managing	our	business.	
These leadership	traits	include:	
• integrity,
• intellect,
• emotional intelligence,
• ethical conduct,
• energy,
• ability to influence,
• strategic mindset,
• open-mindedness,
• resilience,
• self-awareness, and
• humility. 
We expect that partners fulfill their 
responsibility as culture carriers and 
demonstrate the ability to evangelize  
our mission, vision and values to our 
customers, employees, shareholders  
and	other	stakeholders.	Partners	must	
continuously serve in the businesses of the 
Alibaba Digital Economy and have a track 
record of contribution, performance and 
positive impact to our business.
Because each partner has been carefully 
selected through the partner development 
and admission process with a focus on 
leadership and cultural traits in addition 
to proven	performance	and	management	
ability, the pool of partners provides the 
primary source of talent for our leadership. 
As in the case of other public companies, our 
board determines leadership succession at 
the highest level by selecting and appointing 
our chairman and chief executive officer.  
On leadership succession, board members 
nominated	by	the	Partnership	fulfil	their	
directorship duties by counseling and 
offering their	knowledge	about	potential	
internal senior candidates to the 
independent directors.	
Because	Partnership-nominated	directors	 
are familiar with the company’s senior leaders 
through the talent development process  
as partners, our board is afforded a much 
more complete and transparent view of the 
company’s human capital and leadership 
succession alternatives when the critical time 
comes for senior management transition.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 10
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
