In summary
The Role of the Alibaba Partnership continued
ETHICAL CONDUCT
The	Alibaba	Partnership	is	the	steward	of	our	
company’s	conscience.	Partners	are	expected	
to not only conduct themselves with integrity 
but also to monitor the ethical conduct of all  
of our employees as well as their business 
practices. Through the established procedure 
of expulsion (via the vote of over 50% of the 
partners),	the	Partnership	may	expel	partners	
who do not fulfil expectations on integrity 
and ethical conduct or repeatedly breach our 
stated values.
Partners	have	a	duty	to	set	the	tone	at	
the top.	Through	day-to-day	management	
of businesses	within	the	Alibaba	Digital	
Economy, they are expected to communicate 
the values of the company to employees 
through actions and various interactions with 
employees such as meetings, speeches and 
group discussions. Among the values we have 
identified as important to sustainability, we 
especially emphasize “customer first” and 
“integrity” as the core values that guide our 
ethical conduct. 
Our customer-first mentality ensures that  
we put serving those who give us our raison 
d’être as the highest priority. We believe that if 
we adhere to the principle of doing right by 
our customers, our employees will make the 
right judgment and do the right thing when 
the interests of our customers conflict with 
the short-term profit motive. We believe  
that if our customers are well-served by  
our employees, then our shareholders will 
benefit from the resulting value creation. 
Integrity is at the center of how we expect the 
partners	in	the	Partnership	to	demonstrate	
leadership. Specifically, in management and 
leadership positions, partners are expected 
to walk the talk, approach issues with honesty 
and openness, own their mistakes and honor 
commitments. 
We believe that the expectations we put on 
the partners who lead our businesses will 
influence our entire workforce by setting  
the right tone at the top.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Partners	in	the	Alibaba	Partnership	are	
expected to make personal contribution of 
time and financial resources to solving social 
problems	that	require	long-term	investment	
and therefore do not receive the attention of 
the commercial sector.
Partners	have	established	individual	 
and joint foundations to carry out their 
philanthropic activities. Some of the focus 
areas include education, eradication of 
poverty, environmental improvements, and 
economic and social mobility for women. 
Worthy of note are the Jack Ma Foundation, 
which focuses on rural education, poverty 
and entrepreneurship, and Lakeside  
Modou Foundation, a foundation collectively 
established by the 12 women partners in  
the	Partnership	to	provide	care	and	a	better	
future to women and children in rural and 
underdeveloped areas of China. 
The partners believe that philanthropy  
must be sustainable, which means that their 
initiatives should inspire others to action  
and leverage all available societal resources 
beyond their own. For example, when the  
Jack Ma Foundation initiated a program to 
improve education for children in poverty 
stricken areas, the Foundation created an 
annual prize to select and award 100 model 
rural teachers and recruited international 
architects to help design dormitories 
featuring clean sanitary conditions and  
caring community spaces for school  
children on a pro bono basis.
We believe our Partnership system is a 
strong positive feature of our corporate 
governance framework in the following ways:
• The high standards of personal character 
and ethical conduct required of partners 
ensure that we set the right tone at the top; 
• Unlike companies controlled by  
their founders with a dual-class voting 
structure, Alibaba Group is not susceptible 
to the same kind of key man risk and 
vagaries of a single controlling shareholder;
• The Partnership assists our board  
in human capital management and 
leadership succession, especially the 
selection of the company’s chairman  
and chief executive officer; 
• The collective decision-making process  
of the Partnership ensures that matters 
that come up for decision have been 
carefully debated and deliberated, and 
that no single individual controls key 
Partnership decisions; and
• The system of admitting new partners  
and retiring old partners represents a 
continuous process of invigoration to 
ensure excellence of our management 
team, continuing innovation and 
sustainability of our business. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 11
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
