Alibaba Group’s mission is to “make it easy  
to do business anywhere.” Having positive 
social impact has always been embedded  
in our organizational DNA. We believe that  
a profitable and prosperous business can 
only be achieved and sustained by solving 
large-scale societal problems.
Today, the Alibaba Digital Economy not only 
supports the infrastructure of commerce but 
also serves hundreds of millions of consumers 
and tens of millions of enterprises, most of 
them small businesses. This economy extends 
far beyond our immediate customers to 
impact the lives and businesses of all 
stakeholders in our ecosystem. Alibaba  
has become an institution of public trust.
In this ESG report, our first such report for 
the investment community, we will share 
with you how we hold ourselves accountable 
to the highest standards of public trust. This 
report complements what we already report 
domestically to stakeholders on a regular 
basis and summarizes key information in one 
place for easy reference. You will learn that 
we are firmly of the view that the key to good 
governance and sustainability starts with  
a strong company culture and tone at the  
top from responsible leaders. That is why,  
in this report, we provide insights into an 
Letter from the Chairman 
understanding of Alibaba’s mission and 
vision and the role played by the Alibaba 
Partnership,	a	unique	organization	of	the	
most senior members of management with 
the purpose of safeguarding our culture, 
talent development and sound governance 
framework. 
In	2010	we	formed	the	Alibaba	Partnership	
because we recognized that, in order for  
us to develop a sustainable business, we 
needed a system that could outlast the 
Alibaba founders. Our system of governance 
transcends mere policies, rules, processes 
and	procedures.	The	Alibaba	Partnership	
ensures that the company is driven by a clear 
mission, supported by a strong culture, and 
inspired by the right leaders. At Alibaba, we 
expect our leaders to walk the talk, honor 
their commitments, own their mistakes, and 
approach problems with open-mindedness, 
respect and humility.
One of the most difficult yet most  
important governance issues challenging 
public institutions is managing leadership 
transition. Succession planning is not only 
about the selection of the right people but 
also continuity of mission, vision and values. 
Recently I announced that, on September 10, 
2019, I will hand over the role of chairman of 
Alibaba Group to our chief executive officer 
Daniel Zhang. This report sheds light on  
how we manage leadership transition –  
by focusing on human capital development  
and asking whether our mission, vision and 
values are still intact – a process in which  
the	Alibaba	Partnership	plays	a	critical	role.	
I hope you will take away something 
meaningful from engaging in a conversation 
with us through this report. We also welcome 
further comments and views you may have 
and look forward to hearing from you. 
Thank you for all of your support. 
Sincerely yours,
 
JACK MA 
Executive Chairman 
September 17, 2018
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 02
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
