Human Capital continued
RECRUITING AND RETAINING 
THE BEST TALENT
We offer competitive compensation  
and benefits (including retention through 
equity-based	compensation)	and	provide	
comprehensive and innovative career 
development and training for our employees. 
We recruit and invest in best in class talent 
across our business, including engineering, 
technical expertise in artificial intelligence, 
quantum	computing,	cloud	computing,	
digital media, e-commerce and logistics, and 
world class managerial talent. We are also 
establishing research organizations around 
the world, with the aim of improving our 
capabilities in advanced technologies. Our 
technology talent is one of the areas that 
brings us a competitive advantage. 
On an annual basis, we conduct surveys of 
employee satisfaction and engagement to 
better understand gap areas we need to 
address and to gauge the overall sentiment 
of our employees. The results of the surveys 
are presented to our senior leadership and 
appropriate actions are taken to address  
any concerns.
EMBRACING A DIVERSE 
WORKFORCE 
We operate a transparent and inclusive  
work environment. We believe diversity  
is fundamental to maintaining our ability  
to innovate. Gender diversity is deep- 
rooted in the history of Alibaba and the 
company owes its success to having strong 
and effective female leaders. When we  
were founded in 1999, one-third of our  
18 founders were women. 
Today, 12 of the 36 partners in the Alibaba 
Partnership	are	women,	and	they	take	on	
senior management positions at Alibaba 
Group and our affiliates. Within our 
organization, women play prominent 
leadership roles in, among other things, 
engineering, product, customer service,  
risk management, human resources and 
financial management. 
As a company founded in China looking  
to grow globally, we recruit talent in local 
markets as well as special programs to 
develop young international professionals 
who can eventually play leadership roles  
in our organization. Alibaba Global Talent 
Development is a program where we  
recruit approximately 30 professionals from 
around the world annually to come to our 
headquarters	in	Hangzhou	for	a	two-year	
period. The program offers rotational 
training in our business units in six-month 
segments as well as classroom and language 
instruction and, upon graduation from  
the program, the employee is eligible for a 
permanent position in one of our business 
units in China or overseas.
We are a global company and a meritocracy 
above all else. We do not discriminate on  
the basis of race, gender, religion or sexual 
orientation.
TRANSPARENCY IN THE 
WORKPLACE
We foster an open and transparent work 
environment through an emphasis on 
communication and participation. We  
believe one of the most important skills in 
good execution is the ability to effectively 
communicate values, strategies and plans  
to colleagues.
We have a structured and rigorous employee 
feedback framework where each employee  
is reviewed and given feedback on a regular 
basis	–	from	quarterly	to	semi-annually,	
depending on job level. Employee feedback 
includes not only reviews on performance 
and values from supervisors, but also 360 
degree surveys in the case of managers who 
manage people, so that the views of junior 
team members and peers can be heard. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 35
|?HUMAN CAPITAL?|?SOCIAL IMPACT?|
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
