Related Party Transactions 
“Related party transaction”  
is both a legal and ethical 
concept. Certain legal 
definitions of transactions 
between “related parties”  
do not create a conflict  
of interest between the 
company’s management, 
directors or major 
shareholders and 
the interests of its 
independent shareholders. 
For example, a commercial contract  
between Alibaba Group and a company in 
which Alibaba Group is a 30% shareholder  
is by definition a “related party transaction” 
under the U.S. securities rules governing 
foreign private issuers and the analysis our 
board must make to ensure the fair and 
arms-length nature of the transaction is  
no different from the analysis that one 
would apply	to	transactions	between	
unrelated parties. 
On the other hand, transactions between  
the company and a director, officer or  
major shareholder could potentially raise  
the	issue	of	conflict	of	interest	that	requires	
stricter scrutiny by our board and its audit 
committee. It is with this philosophy in mind 
– knowing the distinction between technical 
related party transactions and transactions 
that give rise to apparent or actual conflict – 
that we created the governance framework for 
the board and our management to evaluate 
and approve related party transactions. 
One particularly significant instance of  
high standards of scrutiny is our agreement 
announced earlier this year for Alibaba 
Group to terminate a profit interest, and 
instead	acquire	a	33%	equity	stake	in,	 
Ant Financial and ancillary transactions. 
Because Ant Financial is a company in which 
the	partners	of	Alibaba	Partnership	and	the	
employees of Alibaba Group have significant 
equity	shareholding,	the	transactions	went	
through a rigorous process of evaluation  
and scrutiny by our board. The transactions 
were carefully reviewed and approved by a 
committee comprised of only independent 
directors and the non-executive director 
appointed by SoftBank Group. The 
committee was advised by independent  
legal and financial advisors. In addition, the 
Audit Committee of the board, comprised  
of only independent directors, reviewed  
and approved the transaction. 
For more information on how we 
handle related party transactions  
see our annual report on Form 20-F.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 13
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
