Certificates and Standards
Cybersecurity continued
EVIDENCE OF OUR BUSINESS 
SECURITY AND CYBERSECURITY 
CAPABILITIES
• Our real time risk management engine can 
do 30 billion protective scans per day at peak.
• Our remote personal authentication system 
for merchants is based on biometric 
identification.
• Our emergency management system 
responds to emerging data crisis situations. 
It ranks incidents and situations by levels of 
potential damage, so we can evaluate the 
scope of impact and assess the resources 
required	to	respond	immediately.
• Our security systems have the capacity  
and resources to protect ourselves. We 
successfully defended the largest known 
DDoS attack to date in March 2018, which 
hit our platforms at a peak volume of 
776Gbps.
* Source: China’s Certification and Accreditation Unified Business 
Information	Search	Platform	http://cx.cnca.cn/;	International	
Standards Organization https://www.iso.org/standards.html; 
https://www.alibabacloud.com/trust-center
• We are constantly improving our intrusion 
detection and prevention capability. We have 
a professional “red alert” team that simulates 
realistic external cyber attacks, in order to 
stress test our abilities to block intrusions.
• By deploying Security Development Lifecycle 
(SDL) to all the applications, we are continually 
reducing the number of vulnerabilities to 
improve	application	security	quality.	
• The cybersecurity team offers a “bug bounty” 
program to incentivize individual security 
developers to report bugs in our system. 
• In order to continually prepare for security 
challenges in the future, we operate several 
R&D labs dedicated to researching innovative 
and pioneering security technologies, as well 
as Internet of Things (IoT) and blockchain.
Alibaba follows best practice  
international standards. We meet ISO 
27001 international certification standards, 
the global benchmark for information 
security management systems. Alibaba 
Group is certified by international 
standards*	for	data	security	and privacy	
measures, including: 
• ISO27001 for information security 
management system
• ISO22301 for business continuity systems 
to protect	against,	reduce	the	likelihood	
of occurrence,	prepare	for,	respond	to,	
and recover	from	disruptive	incidents	
• Payment	Card	Industry	Data	Security	
Standard	(PCI	DSS)	
• Report on System and Organization 
Controls	SOC	1	and	2	by	AICPA	for	data	
security, confidentiality and data privacy
Furthermore, Alibaba Cloud is the first 
cloud services provider to be certified  
with the ISO27001 Information Security 
Management System Certification and  
to receive the CSA STAR Certification in 
China. Cainiao Network is the first logistics 
provider to be issued with the industry 
SOCII report.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 27
|?INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTION?|?CYBERSECURITY?|?DATA PROTECTION?|
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
