SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Generally speaking, corporate philanthropy 
uses company/shareholder resources  
to contribute to causes believed by 
management to be worthwhile. Therefore, 
there exists the possibility of misaligned 
incentives	or	disagreement	over philanthropic	
vision. Yet responsible corporations today 
must	demonstrate	that they	can	make	a	
difference to society through altruism. For 
these reasons, we firmly believe corporate 
philanthropy goes beyond charitable giving 
and	must	serve	as a call	to action	for	our	
entire	workforce	as well	as participants	in	our	
ecosystem. 
Our approach to making social contributions 
is two-pronged. First, as described in  
many examples in other parts of this  
report, we take the approach of developing 
commercially viable projects that are 
embedded in the services across a wide 
range of businesses in the Alibaba Digital 
Economy so that the impact is long-lasting. 
Through our businesses, our customers 
including hundreds of millions of consumers 
and merchants, our employees and other 
stakeholders implicitly participate in making 
social impact that is sustainable. 
Social Impact continued
Second, on a not-for-profit basis, Alibaba 
Group, our employees and the partners in 
the	Alibaba	Partnership	make	contributions	
of personal time as well as financial and other 
resources to support national and global-
scale causes. We also help selected charitable 
organizations raise funding by making the 
vast reach of our user-facing platforms 
available to them. Here’s a sampling of  
our not-for-profit efforts: 
• Since 2010, we have established a special 
fund to encourage environmental awareness 
and conservation as well as other corporate 
social responsibility initiatives. In 2011, we 
established the Alibaba Foundation, a private 
charity fund that focuses on supporting 
environmental protection in China and 
helping the disadvantaged. In fiscal year 
2018, we and the Alibaba Foundation made 
approximately RMB230 million (US$37 
million) in donations.
• The	partners	in	the	Alibaba	Partnership	
have established personal foundations to 
advance philanthropic causes consistent 
with the social mission of the company. 
Among them are the Lakeside Modou 
Foundation established by the 12 women 
partners and the Jack Ma Foundation 
which focuses on rural education, poverty 
and entrepreneurship, as described 
elsewhere in this report.
Helping people  
out of poverty
We connect rural merchants and sellers to  
the global marketplace through our platform, 
giving them additional income channels and 
helping people who live in rural areas move  
out of poverty. Our Rural Taobao program 
involves Alibaba establishing business 
infrastructure and e-commerce services in 
rural areas that enable rural residents and 
businesses	to	sell	high-quality	agricultural	
products to urban consumers. The program 
generates business and employment 
opportunities and establishes a two-way 
distribution infrastructure to connect 
commerce between cities and rural areas  
in China. To date, our Rural Taobao program 
has established service centers in over 30,000 
villages and 730 counties in China, including 
300 state-designated impoverished counties.
Case 
study
30,000 
Villages now with service centers 
 
730 
Counties to date helped  
by Rural Taobao program
Rural Taobao program 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 41
|?HUMAN CAPITAL?|?SOCIAL IMPACT?|
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
