Data handling protocols are 
centralized and organized  
to ensure accountability; we 
enforce stringent guidelines 
and rules. We collect, classify 
and manage data in a 
rigorous and systematic 
manner to protect user 
privacy.
Data must be used for agreed objectives 
or purposes,	in	a	relevant	way,	and	within	
an agreed	scope.	Analysis	of	personally	
identifiable data is done on an aggregated, 
anonymized basis. We are committed to best 
practices such as limiting access to data only 
to designated personnel and minimizing data 
collection and retention. Operation logs are 
kept, and disaster recovery and backup 
mechanisms have been established to  
help guarantee data integrity.
We follow clear standards for sharing data 
among affiliates and related third parties, 
and we provide a self-developed secure data 
upload tool for affiliates and authorized third 
parties to access desensitized customer data.
We comply with applicable laws and 
regulations in the markets where we operate 
when sharing personal data of our customers 
with third parties, and we obtain opt-in or 
opt-out	consents	as	required.	In	2018,	we	
have been devoting considerable resources 
to complying with the European Union’s 
General	Data	Protection	Regulation	(GDPR).	
Our Chief Risk Officer oversees both 
cybersecurity and data protection. We have 
a large	team	dedicated	to	developing	our	
data protection policies and procedures, 
and we	are	engaged	with	data	privacy	
experts worldwide, constantly learning 
from leading	industry	practices.
DATA CLASSIFICATION, 
ACCESS, AND USAGE
At the heart of how we manage data is  
the way we classify it. We have a detailed 
protocol for categorizing data along a 
spectrum of usage as well as sensitivity. We 
designate sensitive data as either customer’s 
personally identifiable data, business data 
generated from our platforms, or Alibaba 
corporate data. Then we further classify  
data and assign security levels appropriately, 
into either public (level 1), internal (level 2), 
confidential (level 3), or secret (level 4- 
the highest).	
The	use	of	all	data	requires	identity	
verification of the user applying for data 
access as well as authorization by designated 
responsible persons, and authorization is 
subject to time limits.
Differing levels of sensitive data are 
protected appropriately, so as to guarantee 
the safety of data use by our employees.  
For example:
• For massive data usage scenarios, it is 
mandatory for our staff to use our proprietary 
data leakage prevention tool to ensure data 
cannot be downloaded to the local hosts.
• We have robust measures, including 
proprietary mobile device management 
(Alilang) and data leakage prevention  
(Cloud Shell) software, which can prevent 
data leakage by monitoring abnormal 
behavior of employees and giving timely 
alerts to their managers.
• We are continually improving our data  
flow tracing capability, such as traceable 
watermarks embedded in company files.
• For our open platform, we encrypt level-3 
and level-4 data before transfering to our 
authorized sellers’ independent software 
vendors.
Alibaba Group and our affiliates, such as Ant 
Financial Services and our logistics subsidiary 
Cainiao Network, have a well-established 
framework in place to share certain types of 
data in controlled environments in order to 
improve our service offering to customers. 
We have implemented strict rules and 
protocols for data sharing with affiliates, 
including physical storage, prohibition of data 
duplication and a data oversight committee. 
Data Protection continued
More information on policies 
regarding our	Data	Sharing	
Agreement with	affiliates	can	be	 
found	in	our most	recent	annual	 
report on Form 20-F, page 201.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 30
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTION?|?CYBERSECURITY?|?DATA PROTECTION?|
