ORGANIZATIONAL 
ACCOUNTABILITY
We have established three levels of 
organizational accountability for data 
collection and classification – at the group 
management level, business group level,  
and business unit level. 
• At group management level, we have 
a Data Security Committee that is 
responsible for our official Data Security 
Guidelines around production, processing, 
transmission, storage, use, dissemination, 
and destruction of data, during all stages  
of the data life cycle. 
• At	the	business	group	level,	the	President	 
of each group is held accountable for data 
security, and each business unit has a 
dedicated expert who oversees data 
security issues. 
• Each business unit formulates corresponding 
implementation rules, based on the 
Guidelines, which must be pre-approved 
and filed with the Data Security Committee.
• We also conduct training to improve  
the data security awareness of Alibaba 
employees and enforce compliance with 
our guidelines. Employees who are handling 
sensitive data are closely monitored to help 
avoid possible risks or losses resulting from 
improper data handling. 
Employees	are	required	to	go	through	
an annual	data	handling	and	protocol	
certification to ensure knowledge and 
sensitivity to our data policies. Any 
employees who violate the Data Security 
Guidelines are subject to penalty including 
dismissal, and we may also pursue civil and 
criminal charges against them.
Data Protection continued
Alibaba Cloud, our cloud 
computing arm, is a founding 
member of the EU Cloud  
Code of Conduct and the 
General Assembly, which 
helped to develop a code  
of conduct for EU cloud 
services in accordance 
with the requirements 
of the EU’s General Data 
Protection Regulation.
COMPLIANCE WITH 
EVOLVING REGULATIONS
Alibaba is committed to compliance with 
government regulations in every jurisdiction 
in which we operate, and especially when  
the government orders enforcements  
or investigations. Separately, we have 
established procedures to support litigation, 
court orders, discovery and other legal 
matters	that	may	require	data	disclosure	 
but at the same time strictly minimize 
unnecessary disclosure of personal data.
In recent years, the European Union (EU), 
China, and other countries have 
strengthened the protection of private 
information of individuals and businesses, 
which we view as positive developments. 
We follow	new	PRC	cyber	security	laws	
governing the collection of personally 
identifiable	information	(PII)	and	we	are	
ISO27018 certified for measures that protect 
PII	in accordance	with	the	privacy	principles	
in	ISO/IEC	29100	for	the public	cloud	
computing environment. 
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 31
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS PROTECTION?|?CYBERSECURITY?|?DATA PROTECTION?|
