Social Impact continued
Women Entrepreneurs
The Lakeside Modou Foundation was collectively 
established by the 12 women partners in the 
Alibaba	Partnership	to	provide	care	and	a	
better future to women and children in rural 
and underdeveloped areas of China. The 
Foundation started a program, the “Model Mom 
Entrepreneurship Competition”, to highlight 
female entrepreneurs from disadvantaged 
backgrounds with the purpose of inspiring 
other women to start entrepreneurial ventures. 
The selected winners of the competition are 
each awarded RMB 200,000 in interest-free 
loans, online training resources, and one-year 
tuition-free	training	at	Peking	University’s	
entrepreneurship course.
Case 
study
ENABLING SMALL BUSINESSES 
In every aspect of our business from 
e-commerce to local services, we are  
enabling small merchants to have access  
to consumers and to operate their business 
more efficiently through software tools. Over 
10 million small businesses transact on our 
China retail marketplace platforms, and our 
local	services platforms	Ele.me	and	Koubei	
serve	about	3.5 million	registered	restaurants	
and other service establishments. In addition, 
our	affiliate	Ant Financial	has	provided	 
credit	to	around	10 million	small	businesses	
that otherwise could not borrow money  
from banks.
Our international expansion also focuses on 
small	businesses.	Our	acquired	subsidiary	
Lazada operates e-commerce platforms in 
six Southeast	Asian	countries	(Indonesia,	
Malaysia,	Thailand,	Vietnam,	Philippines	and	
Singapore), and helps more than 155,000 
local and international sellers as well as 3,000 
brands do business on the Lazada platform. 
We executed on a multi-lateral vision to 
establish	the	electronic	World	Trade	Platform	
(eWTP),	a	framework	for	small	businesses	
around the world to participate in global 
e-commerce trade through lower tariffs, 
free-trade zones and logistics support. In 
May 2017, we realized the first step toward 
our	eWTP	vision	by	working	with	the	Malaysia	
Digital Economy Corporation to launch the 
first digital free trade zone in Malaysia. 
5,100
Entrepreneurial moms who have 
received transformative opportunities
25,000
Additional jobs across 10 Chinese provinces 
and cities resulting from the competition
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 39
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
|?HUMAN CAPITAL?|?SOCIAL IMPACT?|
