Environment continued
LIQUID IMMERSION COOLING 
TECHNOLOGY FOR ITS SERVERS 
Alibaba	Group	launched	an	immersion	liquid	
cooling technology that further enhances  
the	energy	efficiency	of	its servers.	Using	
non-conductive	cryogenic	liquid	to	achieve	 
a cooling effect, this technology brings the 
PUE	close	to	1.0.
GREENING THE 
LOGISTICS SYSTEM 
Cainiao Network, our logistics business, 
is working	towards	a	goal	of	replacing	 
50%	of	all packaging	materials	on	Alibaba- 
related platforms with 100% eco-friendly  
or biodegradable packaging materials. We 
launched a “green packaging” program and 
pushed it to our courier service partners. 
Under the program, bio-degradable bags, 
tape-free boxes and package recycling bins 
are used.	Using	a	packaging	optimization	
algorithm, Cainiao Network matches 
packaging needs based on a parcel’s mass 
and volume,	which	on	average	reduces	the	
use of	packaging	materials	by	approximately	
15%. This technology was applied in over 
250 million	delivery	boxes	and	courier	 
bags	in the	fiscal	year	ended	March	2018.	
We have also invested significant resources  
in green warehouses powered by solar panels, 
and using green energy vehicles. 
The effect of our initiatives is far-reaching  
for	the China	logistics	industry,	as	the	 
Alibaba China retail marketplace platforms 
generate a majority of all parcel deliveries 
annually. With Cainiao Network as the central 
information system and coordinator of our 
large logistics ecosystem, we are able to 
effectively implement our green philosophy 
and goals under our “Green Logistics Alliance” 
to 32 partner companies including courier 
service providers, warehouse operators and 
trucking firms. In addition, Cainiao Network 
teamed	up with	500	global	brands,	including	
Kiehl’s, Wrigley Company, Mondelez 
International	and Colgate-Palmolive,	to	
establish	the	“Green Brand	Alliance”	that	
commits	to	using “green	packaging”.	
We integrate green building features into 
our logistics	parks	by	using	energy-saving	
materials to reduce energy consumption 
and greenhouse	gas	emissions.	In	2016,	 
the energy savings rate of Alibaba’s logistics 
parks reached 10% due to our optimization of 
energy use, our use of more energy-efficient 
equipment,	and	our	promotion	of	paperless	
invoice and tracking systems.
Cainiao Network is in the 
process of building green 
logistics parks powered by 
solar energy which will avoid  
more than 1 million tons of 
carbon emissions annually.
Alibaba Group Holding Limited ESG Report 2018? 46
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE TRUST SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX
