Seeking Growth – The ESG Way
Edelweiss Securities Limited26
esg evolutIon 
As a concept, ESG investing dates back to January 2004, when former UN Secretary General 
Kofi Annan wrote to over 50 CEOs of major global financial institutions, inviting them to 
participate in a joint initiative under the auspices of the UN Global Compact. The primary 
goal was to find ways of integrating ESG philosophies into capital markets. A year later, the 
term “ESG” was coined in a landmark study titled Who Cares Wins. Since then, ESG investing 
has come a long way, currently accounting for almost a quarter of all professionally 
managed assets (USD 23 trillion) in the world. 
Beyond srI
To reiterate, ESG is a successor to SRI, but unlike SRI, which uses negative screens, ESG 
investing has underpinnings of financial viability. The Who Cares Wins report by Ivo 
Knoepfel and the Freshfields report by UNEP/FI emphasise the financial importance of 
embedding environmental, social and governance factors in capital markets. These two 
reports were precursors to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) at the New York 
Stock Exchange in 2006 and the Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative (SSEI) in 2007.
In early days, ESG did face headwinds as institutional investors largely believed 
maximisation of shareholder wealth – regardless of their environmental or social 
impacts, or broader governance issues – as their sole fiduciary duty. Another major 
barrier to Seeking Growth – The ESG Way has been sketchy data and lack of necessary 
tools to size up ESG avenues or prospects. Over time, empirical studies have crystallised 
the rewarding “ESG Way”, which has engendered willingness among stakeholders across 
businesses and the investment fraternity to integrate ESG in decision-making. 
united nations shows the way: 17 sustainable developmental goals 
ESG has gained currency in the past decade, particularly with the United Nations 
Organisation (UNO) formulating a list of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
In 2015, leaders from 193 countries deliberated and adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. The SDGs are exhaustive and adopted by the UN as the 
basis for sustainable development—and are increasingly being used by governments, 
businesses and investors too as benchmarks for their sustainability initiatives. 
The SDGs, also known as the Global Goals, are also a universal call to action to end poverty, 
protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity for all. They are built on the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), include pressing topics such as climate change, economic 
inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among others. While 
these MDGs typically apply to countries and societies across the board, they are likely to 
be more specifically used by businesses and investors. They do also have a more social and 
environmental bias, with governance being more of an offshoot. 
In early days, ESG did face 
headwinds as institutional 
investors largely 
believed maximisation 
of shareholder wealth 
– regardless of their 
environmental or social 
impacts, or broader 
governance issues – as 
their sole fiduciary duty
