Edelweiss Securities Limited 41
led by determined efforts by the government, SEBI and stock exchanges. Overall, 
corporate governance norms in India have fairly tightened with focus on corporate 
boards, auditor accountability, and shareholder approval for key transactions and 
enhanced disclosures.
Evolution of India’s corporate governance framework
•  Establishment of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
•  Introduction of CII Code for 
Desirable Corporate Governance
•  Birla Committee: Revisions to 
listing agreement, code of 
corporate practices, etc.
•  "Clause 49" in Equity Listing 
Agreement: Board composition, 
code of conduct, etc.
•  Corporate governance: 
Recommendations on International 
Financial Standards
•  OECD  releases Principles of 
Corporate Governance 
•  Chandra Committee: Mandatory 
audit partner rotations, Quality 
Review Board, etc.
•  N R Narayan Murthy Committee 
Report: Responsibilities of Audit 
Committee, shareholder approval 
for non-executive directors’ 
compensation, code of conduct
•  Corporate Governance-Voluntary 
Guidelines 2009: Partial 
participatory approach to address 
contemporary corporate 
governance issues in India 
• Companies Act 2013: Landmark 
change in corporate governance 
landscape
• Adoption of IND AS a structural 
shift in reporting norms to global 
standards
• SEBI LODR regulation changes 
• Implementation of Kotak 
Committee recommendations 
on corporate governance
• Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code (IBC) enacted to resolve 
the NPA crisis, etc.
• Whistle Blower Mechanism: 
Mandatory requirement for 
listed companies
1999–2000
2000–2010
2010–2018
Source: Edelweiss Research
the most recent Indian development
The most recent corporate governance development is the SEBI-driven and Mr Uday Kotak 
(CEO, Kotak Mahindra Bank) led SEBI committee on corporate governance in June 2017. It 
was formed in recognition of the need for higher standards, challenges and events in recent 
years, and the scale of India’s markets. This committee report was also to plug gaps in the 
existing framework, and practices that need closer scrutiny. In its findings, the committee 
cited numerous studies to make a somewhat counterintuitive point that the payoff from 
good corporate governance manifests both in operating results of listed companies and their 
market capitalisation. 
