Seeking Growth – The ESG Way
Edelweiss Securities Limited
IntroducIng esg
What is esg? 
ESG – the acronym for Environmental, Social and Governance – is a generic term for 
evaluating corporate behaviour and nowadays used interchangeably with sustainable, 
responsible, impact or ethical investment. It may be viewed as a successor to Socially 
Responsible Investment (SRI), which is gaining popularity worldwide. But unlike SRI, which 
relies on negative screening, ESG propounds an underlying philosophy of larger good 
without overlooking financial or economic viability. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) – 
an India economy/regulatory phenomenon that is often mistaken for ESG – is actually only 
a small part of ESG.
Source: Institutional Investor Advisory Services
Environmental
Criteria look at how
a company performs
as a steward of the
natural environment
Criteria examine how
a company manages
relationship with its
employees and stakeholders
Deals with a company’s
leadership, executive pay,
audits, internal controls
and shareholders rights
Social Governance
ESG – Environmental, Social and Governance
What is esg investing?
Traditional investment parameters talk up corporate ratios and financial returns, which 
are quantitative and numeric. Valuation methodologies may be fairly subjective, but 
they too are ultimately quantitative measures. Investing based on an ESG framework, 
is a desirable add-on that quantifies the qualitative impact of business, namely its 
Environmental, Social and Governance aspects. ESG investing is thus a comprehensive 
approach that integrates the Environmental, Social and Governance factors into 
investment analysis and decision-making. 
Consequently, from investors’ standpoint, ESG data are increasingly important to 
identify companies that do business the right way and are well positioned to exploit 
the opportunities thereof. And for policymakers too, it should be a welcome market-led 
Investing based on an  
ESG framework is a 
desirable add-on that 
quantifies the qualitative 
impact of business
