Edelweiss Securities Limited 15
development that ascribes a high weighting to common good (or avoiding common bad), 
which is typically sacrificed at the altar of short-term profit making.
Why is esg investing important?
ESG norms are progressively defining the way businesses should operate, particularly in 
developed markets. environmental sensitivity continues to rise as health, lifestyle and 
economic risks are increasingly quantified. social imbalances are becoming political hot 
potatoes: whether it’s rising economic disparities and opportunities, gender biases or 
social class systems. And governance makes headlines – until recently more often the lack 
of it – with progressively lower odds of sparing those that let down or get caught. 
Over time, ESG has risen from being a fuzzy concept to a business, investing and political 
priority – whether global or Indian – and it shall, eventually, command overriding importance 
in the world of business as well as investments. We see ESG increasingly driving: a) the 
quality of companies and the way they conduct business; b) higher economic returns that 
such businesses generate over the long term – in spite of short-term or upfront financial 
costs or trade-offs; c) investor orientation and investment mandates, and the flow of 
capital; d) higher financial returns – for businesses and investors; e) regulatory tightening 
or operating risks for businesses, particularly that are not compliant; and f ) goodwill for 
businesses within the sociopolitical space they operate in. It’s a wide ambit.  
In general, ESG norms are tightening and, therefore, profit preservation would 
nudge companies to meet the statutory ESG requirements. In this constantly evolving 
operating landscape, only companies that have built businesses on ESG foundations shall 
eventually thrive.
Responsible Stewardship 
Create a framework to move towards 
international standards and mitigate the 
impact on externalities
Business 
Operating Space 
bounded by Legal 
Standards 
Operating space given 
voluntary adoption of 
International 
Standards 
Best Practice More demanding Legal 
Standards shrink the 
business operating 
space
Stakeholder Engagement
Gain knowledge to understand how 
fast ‘External Factors’ will change and 
when disruptions will occur
Future – Proong Including Our Supply Chain
Modify strategic business plan to include 
additional mitigation and adaption to changes 
in external factors
Constrained by 
the Legal 
Standards 
needed for 
a Sustainable 
World 
Source: Aditya Birla Group Sustainability Model
ESG narrows operating framework: Future-proofing businesses
Over time, ESG has risen 
from being a fuzzy concept 
to a business, investing 
and political priority – 
whether global or Indian
