Seeking Growth – The ESG Way
Edelweiss Securities Limited46
Mahindra Sustainability Framework
Building enduring businesses by rejuvenating the environment 
and enabling stakeholders to Rise
Grow green revenue
Mitigate risk including climate risk
Make supply chain sustainable
Embrace technology and innovation
Enhance brand equity
Building Enduring Business
Profit
Achieve carbon neutrality
Become water positive
Ensure no waste to landfill
Promise biodiversity
Rejuvenating the Environment
Planet
Build a great place to work
Foster inclusive development
Make sustainability personal
Enabling Stakeholders to Rise
People
Partnering. Learning. Sharing
Mahindra was among the first ones to champion the cause of sustainability by creating 
awareness on the matter – right from boardroom to the shop floor – in order to 
successfully marry its business processes with sustainable practices. It enforced stricter 
monitoring mechanisms on the one hand and set targets for reduction of non-renewable 
energy uses on the other, thereby creating a sustainability blueprint for all companies in 
the Group. The Group also leverages innovation to drive home the sustainability cause. 
For example, to abide by its commitment to slash greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 
25% over three years through 2019, the Group introduced the novel concept of internal 
carbon price charged per tonne of carbon emitted by unit. 
A notable effort of the Group in preserving the environment is 16.5MW of in-house 
renewable energy capacity. It also achieved Water Positive Status in 2014, having reduced 
water consumption by 1,34,696 m3 over 2016–18. On the social front too, the Mahindra 
Group has made commendable strides with particular focus on improving gender diversity 
in workforce and generous CSR contributions for its girl child programme called Nanhi Kali. 
Other domains that the Group is actively involved in are education, agriculture, farmers 
and youth. 
The Mahindra Group’s integrated approach of developing a sustainable business has been 
ahead of time, in our view, and sets a precedent for corporate India. 
To abide by its 
commitment to slash 
greenhouse gas emissions 
by 25% over three years 
through 2019, the Group 
introduced the novel 
concept of internal carbon 
price charged per tonne  
of carbon emitted by unit
