Seeking Growth – The ESG Way
Edelweiss Securities Limited34
   Actually, the social efforts of businesses go much beyond spend; such capital 
commitments also reflect a social bias. Interestingly, as much as 60% of India’s 
CSR spends go toward education and skill development. This not only zooms 
in on one of the glaring gaps in the India socioeconomic framework, but the 
needs that are most prominently felt by business. In addition, this indicates an 
investment in society bias, rather than band-aid spending, which continues 
to be seen as more the domain of the government. There is, however, a wide 
range of spends and we would argue the opportunities and spaces will only 
tend to widen. In fact the large availability of funding over the recent years has 
in pockets actually created a POP – problem of plenty – marked by a lack of 
enough development ground-level entities (e.g. NGOs), which can effectively 
channel this money appropriately.   
Thematic distribution of CSR funds
Source: India CSR Outlook Report 2018
35% Education and
Skill Development
27% Poverty Alleviation,
WASH and Healthcare
11% Rural
Development
11% Environmental
Sustainability
3% National Heritage, Art and Culture
2% Woman Empowerment
2% Sports and Rural Sports
2% Admin Expense
1% Corpus Fund
0.4% PM Relief Funds
and Similar Funds
6% Others
  government leads…
   While the government is responsible and leads social spends, a few initiatives go 
hand-in-hand with the private sector. One such initiative has yielded enormous 
health and environmental benefits, and is reflective of the opportunity that 
the Indian economy offers.  This one called the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 
(PMUY) seeks to eliminate harmful cooking fuels such as firewood and coal, 
which are big sources of carbon emissions in India and put women and children 
at great risk. The Yojana or scheme encourages well-to-do households to give 
up LPG subsidies while extending subsidised connections to those dependent 
on unconventional cooking fuels. 
Interestingly, as much  
as 60% of India’s CSR 
spends go toward 
education and skill 
development
