Seeking Growth – The ESG Way
Edelweiss Securities Limited28
India’s sustainability goals
India is in sync with the UNO's SDGs. The country’s top planning body NITI Aayog has fine-
tuned the 17 SDGs to Indian realities and inked a Sustainable Development Framework 
(SDF) for 2018–22 with the UNO. It is entrusted with implementing ‘Transforming our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Framework’ (called SDF). The SDF 
covers 17 goals and 169 related targets thrashed out at the UN Sustainable Development 
Summit over 25–27 September 2015 over the 15-year period. More than anything else, the 
SDF is a reflection of India’s commitment to attaining SDGs. 
sizeable budget to promote sustainability goals
The Government of India has earmarked a sizeable budget of INR 110 trillion for the 
programme. The focus areas: post are poverty and urbanisation; health, water, and 
sanitation; education; nutrition and food security; climate change, clean energy and 
disaster resilience; skilling, entrepreneurship and job creation; and gender equality and 
youth development. The task at hand for NITI Aayog is not merely to collate data on SDG, 
but to act proactively to fructify the goals and targets quantitatively while maintaining 
high ESG standards. The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) has 
already undertaken a parallel exercise—it interacted with various ministries to formulate 
measurable indicators for SDF. 
All such initiatives show the government’s clear intent to abide by the framework given its 
huge likely influence on aspects such as Environment (all the more relevant given India’s 
mammoth population), Social (disparities due to economics, history, culture, diversity, 
etc), and Governance (need for strong  institutions and frameworks). While some of 
these commitments will be politically and economically challenging to execute, its need 
is probably more paramount than for most, given problems and complexities of a large 
nation with more than a billion inhabitants. 
India is in sync with the 
UNO's SDGs. The country’s 
top planning body NITI 
Aayog has fine-tuned the 
17 SDGs to Indian realities 
and inked a Sustainable 
Development Framework 
(SDF) for 2018–22 with  
the UNO
