Edelweiss Securities Limited 39
rePortIng FrAmeWorK – IndIA’s AttemPt to emulAte gloBAl stAndArds
Reporting frameworks and requirements have evolved over the past two decades. The 
Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI) – a set of modular 
reporting standards that any organisation can use to report its impact on the economy, the 
environment, and society – is considered among the highest standards globally. 
(A) global standards for sustainability reporting
global standards for sustainability reporting – grI, one of the leading standards
GRI, an independent international organisation, has pioneered corporate sustainability 
reporting since 1997.
The GRI Standards is a set of modular reporting standards that can be used by any 
organisation to report its impact on the economy, the environment, and society. The set 
includes three universal standards applicable to all organisations: GRI 101: Foundation; 
GRI 102: General Disclosures; and GRI 103: Management Approach. In addition, there 
are 33 topic-specific standards, which are classified into Economic, Environmental, and 
Social categories that organisations can select from to report on their material topics.
The GRI Standards are developed through a transparent, multi-stakeholder process 
and are issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB), an independent 
standard-setting body created by the GRI. Thousands of organisations in more than 
90 countries currently use the GRI Standards to report sustainability information. The 
GRI Standards are also referenced in policy or regulation in more than 40 countries and 
regions, and by more than 20 stock exchanges worldwide.
In 2006, the UNO launched the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) based on the 
notion that an ESG approach can affect the performance of investment portfolios and 
should, therefore, be considered alongside more traditional financial factors if investors 
are to properly fulfil their fiduciary duty. The PRI signatories are expected to follow these 
principles, thereby aligning investment activities with interests of the society. We see great 
scope for PRI adoption in furthering the ESG cause.
In 2006, the UNO 
launched the Principles 
for Responsible 
Investment (PRI) based 
on the notion that an 
ESG approach can 
affect the performance 
of investment portfolios 
and should, therefore, 
be considered alongside 
more traditional 
financial factors if 
investors are to properly 
fulfil their fiduciary duty
