Edelweiss Securities Limited 45
esg – corPorAte IndIA's eXPerIence
corporate India embedding sdgs in strategic values
India’s securities watchdog Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has mandated 
the top 500 listed Indian companies to report non-financial parameters. Such companies 
must, therefore, generate a Business Responsibility Report (BRR) capturing their non-
financial performance across economic, environmental and social factors. Forward-looking 
businesses are proactively adopting ESG-based strategies, evident from the weighty (up to 
100 pages) sustainability reports they publish. 
Our interviews of captains of industry too suggest chairpersons and CEOs are putting 
in disproportionately greater time and effort "Seeking Growth – The ESG Way". We also 
interacted with several ESG thought leaders, consultants, philanthropists and investors, 
and, therefore, recognise first-hand that forward-looking business groups are in fact going 
beyond the mandatory BRR reporting. 
Purpose beyond environment
Our findings on sustainability strategies are also based on three leading Indian 
conglomerates: The Mahindra Group, The Reliance Group and the Aditya Birla Group. Each 
of their sustainability frameworks are interwoven into respective business strategies. Not 
only are these companies making rapid strides in the more traditional environmental 
aspects of ESG, but also diversifying into businesses that seek to fill the much-needed gap 
pertaining to the Social and Governance aspects of ESG.
We showcase three case studies below as a microcosm of what India’s leading home-grown 
conglomerates are doing across some of their business (and have traditional Environment 
sensitive lines of business and exposure). We do believe a rising proportion of businesses 
are training focus on SDGs. While part of this does likely emanate from regulatory pressures 
– either current, or inevitable – we argue much of this push is being driven by evolving 
belief systems among corporate India. We explore their goals, belief systems, and approach 
to sustainability, or their ESG Way of running the business. 
case study I: mahindra group – An early starter
The Mahindra Group has been among the pioneers in corporate India embracing The ESG 
Way to growth.
The group kick-started its Sustainability Reporting Journey in 2007 with an “Alternative 
Thinking” of proactive alignment of business operations to exponentially rising social and 
environmental demands, and new economic opportunities. Incorporating sustainability as 
an important ingredient in its ‘Rise’ philosophy, the Mahindra Group has time and again 
tried to make responsible growth a way of business. Spearheading strong governance 
standards by introducing Sustainability Reports alongside multiple initiatives centred on 
environmental sustainability, the Group’s corporate journey ticks off the much-need social 
checkbox and is impacting the society in a meaningful way. 
We showcase three 
case studies below as 
a microcosm of what 
India’s leading home-
grown conglomerates 
are doing across some of 
their business (and have 
traditional Environment 
sensitive lines of business 
and exposure)
