VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
55
Products and Production  |  ManageMent aPProach –  Products and Production Products and Production  |  PoWertrain and  FueL strategy
The automotive industry is about to make the next quantum leap 
in innovation. We assume that by 2025, about one in every four new 
vehicles manufactured by the Group – so up to three million units 
per year, depending on market developments – could run entirely on 
battery power. Volkswagen’s Roadmap E, first presented in public at 
the Frankfurt Motor Show (IAA 2017), underscores the Volkswagen 
Group’s ambition to massively accelerate the electrification of its 
entire vehicle portfolio.
The Volkswagen Group’s powertrain and fuel strategy paves the way 
for carbon­neutral, sustainable mobility – entirely in keeping with 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We aim 
to boost powertrain and fuel efficiency with each new generation of 
 vehicles – whether they are driven by combustion engines, hybrid 
drives, plug­in hybrids, all­electric powertrains or, perhaps at some 
point in the future, fuel­cell systems. All our mobility concepts are 
 tailored to the requirements and customer needs of our respective 
markets. By taking this approach, we will broaden our portfolio 
of drive systems such that traditional powertrains will coexist with 
 electric mobility (e­mobility) systems in the future. Our current 
 modular matrix platforms are designed so that different drive systems 
can be deployed in various combinations and flexibly fitted on 
production lines in manufacturing facilities around the world. In the 
future, we will focus on expanding our range of electric powertrains. 
We will also be adding an electrically powered version of our modu­
lar matrix (the Modular Electrification Toolkit or MEB) to form the 
backbone of upcoming electric vehicles. The MEB offers a number 
of significant advantages, especially in terms of packaging, meaning 
the arrangement of powertrain components, auxiliary systems and 
interior features.
Powertrain and  
Fuel Strategy
audi Q7 3.0 tdi e-tron quattro – fuel consumption in l/100 km: 1.9–1.8 
(combined); energy consumption in kWh/100 km: 19.0–18.1 (combined); 
co? emissions in g/km: 50–48 (combined); co? efficiency class: a+.
VW Passat gte – fuel consumption in l/100 km: 1.7–1.6 (combined); 
energy consumption in kWh/100 km: 12.8–12.2 (combined);  
co?  emissions in g/km: 39–37 (combined); co? efficiency class: a+.
