VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
19
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  the VolkswAGeN GRoup stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  the VolkswAGeN VAlue chAiN
The Volkswagen Value Chain
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
PROCUREMENT
MARKETING & SALES
PRODUCTION
AFTER-SALES & FINANCIAL SERVICES
RECYCLING
year for year, the Volkswagen Group invests more in research and development than any 
other automotive company in the world, laying the foundations for new models and 
innovative concepts with which to master the challenges of the future: digitalization, 
networking and electric mobility (e-mobility).
every working day, the Volkswagen Group manufactures an average of 43,000 vehicles. 
efficient production ranks alongside employee health and safety as one of our core goals. 
New concepts help prepare employees for the future, covering every step from vocational 
training onwards.
our service provision includes supporting dealerships to ensure they can provide quality 
advice and maintenance, managing our original parts business, and providing innovative 
vehicle-related financial services. Driver training courses in fuel-efficient driving play an 
effective part in cutting fuel consumption and thus co? emissions.
Recycling makes a key contribution to reducing our products’ impact on the environment and conserv-
ing resources. this is not just about recycling vehicles at the end of their useful life; recycling starts 
at the new-vehicle development stage, during which we pay close attention to the recyclability of the 
required materials, the use of high-quality recycled materials, and the avoidance of pollutants. At the 
same time, we factor in aspects of the use phase, for instance the treatment and disposal of service 
fluids and high-wear components.
every year, the Volkswagen Group purchases a wide range of raw materials, components 
and other goods. A sustainable supply chain and environmentally compatible transporta-
tion play key roles in our responsible and comprehensive championing of human rights, 
environmental protection and the battle against corruption.
the Volkswagen Group markets its vehicles in 153 countries. Around the world, comfort 
and safety are considered the key customer requirements. we continuously reduce our 
models’ fuel consumption and offer alternative mobility services.
120 
production sites 
on four continents  (2017)
19,520 
people attended Driving Experience  
eco-driving courses and test drives (2017)
End-of-life vehicles are 
85% recycled 
and 
95% recovered
173.6 € billion 
spent on procurement (2017) 
>10.7 million 
vehicles delivered worldwide (2017)
49,316 people 
are employed by the Volkswagen Group 
in Research & Development
