VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
26
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble Mobility
Starting in 2018, in a further step along the road to a new world 
of digitized mobility, we are planning to join forces with Israeli 
company Mobileye to implement a new navigation standard for 
automated driving. Future Volkswagen models will use Mobileye’s 
Road Experience Management™ (REM™) camera-based mapping and 
localization technology. 
 
However, the economic, social and environmental requirements our 
mobility solutions must satisfy often contain a number of inherent-
ly conflicting goals. Whenever we fail to achieve a balance between 
economic, social and environmental objectives, long-term risks 
emerge both for our stakeholders and for the financial success of 
our Group. Some examples of such conflicting goals include:
 § Individual mobility solutions facilitate participation in society and 
individual autonomy. In the future, many people will still want to 
run their own cars – despite the steadily increasing availability of 
innovative mobility concepts. This is particularly true of the growing 
consumer markets in emerging and developing countries, as well as 
sparsely populated regions. However, the desire for individual mobil-
ity also contributes to increased consumption of natural resources 
and accelerates the process of anthropogenic climate change.
further information on seDRic can be found at: 
http://www.discover-sedric.com/en/ 
further information on the strategic partnership between Volkswagen and  
Mobileye can be found at: https://www.volkswagen-media-services.com/en/
 § The market success of SUVs underscores the attractiveness of 
Volkswagen products. Fulfilling these existing customer wishes 
safeguards the business success of our Group and provides job 
security for our employees. But the higher fuel consumption of SUVs 
compared with other vehicle models makes it more difficult for us to 
meet the climate targets we have set ourselves.
 § Government legislation, and especially changes to regulations 
governing CO? emissions, have made ecologically driven structural 
change inevitable. However, this far-reaching change poses a chal-
lenge to existing production methods and workforce qualifications. 
At the same time, the shift toward e-mobility and the associated 
investments in production capacity are also generating new employ-
ment opportunities.
 § Electric mobility also raises new environmental questions, such as 
how to measure the environmental impact of electric and hybrid 
vehicles compared with conventional vehicles in terms of the use of 
mineral resources in production and the recycling of battery cells at 
the end of the product life cycle.
 § Automated vehicles and new mobility services offer more 
convenience, enhance road safety, and encourage optimization 
of transport and traffic systems, especially in heavily populated 
urban areas. The new demand for collective mobility is creating a 
new competitive environment with brand-new players, to which 
we must continually adapt.
 § Connected driving and digitalization depend on data sharing 
and big data analysis, but we must also comply with legislation 
governing personal data protection. Before automated mobility 
can succeed, we need to clarify a large number of ethical and legal 
questions.
VOLKSWAGEN SUSTAINABILITY CYCLE
Employment
Cultural change
Integrity
Compliance Conict minerals
Life cycle Transparency
Customer wishes
Recycling
Stakeholders
Industry 4.0
Lightweight design
Concept vehicles
Ride hailing
Robotaxis
Autonomous driving
Algorithms
Mobility on demand 
Elektric drives
Natura-gas drives
Hybrid drives
Software
Shuttle-pooling service
Return on sales
SUSTAINABLE 
TECHNOLOGY
SUSTAINABLE 
APPLICATIONS
SUSTAINABLE 
COMPANY
the MoiA vehicle is the world’s only electric ride-pooling six-seater. 
Although nearly ready for production, the concept vehicle is not yet 
available for sale, so is not subject to eu Directive 1999/94 ec.
putting a new face on ride-pooling, the MoiA vehicle is 
all-electric, eco-friendly, and has enough room for six 
passengers.
