VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
83
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: WoRk oRganization Fit FoR the FUtURe
Strategic Objective: 
Work Organization Fit for the Future
A job’s attractiveness depends first and foremost on the workplace 
itself. Consequently, we endeavor to provide an innovative working 
environment in our plants and offices which allows individuals to 
fulfill their potential. This includes introducing new approaches 
such as Scrum and design thinking in knowledge work, as well as 
innovative practices on the shop floor, for instance by systemati cally 
designing technology around the workforce and creating more 
opportunities for participation. In addition, we offer working time 
models tailored to individual employees’ requirements and specific 
programs for workers with performance impairments; in these 
 cases in particular, individually tailored forms of work organization 
can significantly boost performance and job satisfaction levels. 
Volkswagen AG’s Work2Work program has been creating new career 
opportunities for employees with differing abilities since 2001. An 
employee’s current potential is matched to workplace requirements 
so that despite a given disability, the individual is nevertheless 
still able to create significant value. More than 2,000 employees have 
benefited from this program in recent years, and 812 people are 
currently employed in Work2Work jobs in Wolfsburg across some 
100 different activities.  
In 2017, we published an Inclusion Report for Volkswagen AG for 
the first time. This set out our experiences over many years of inte-
grating employees with impairments or differing abilities. 
We are also committed to employees with disabilities in other 
countries. For instance, over 200 people with disabilities work in five 
sheltered workshops and other workplaces at ŠKODA production 
plants in Czechia. 
Creating the workplaces of the future also involves making them 
barrier-free for people with disabilities. This includes ensuring that 
all employees, regardless of any impairment, can access and use 
all buildings, information and communication facilities without 
assistance.
