VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
18
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  the VolkswAGeN GRoup
PRODUCTS
The Volkswagen Group is one of the leading multibrand groups in the 
automotive industry. The Company’s business activities comprise the 
Automotive and Financial Services divisions. All brands in the Auto-
motive Division – with the exception of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars 
and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles brands – are independent legal 
entities.  
The Automotive Division comprises the Passenger Cars, Commercial  
Vehicles and Power Engineering Business Areas. The Volkswagen 
Group’s passenger car brands are mostly consolidated in the Passenger 
Cars Business Area. This Business Area focuses primarily on developing 
vehicles and engines, producing and selling passenger cars, and dealing 
in original (genuine Volkswagen) parts. The product portfolio extends 
from fuel-efficient small cars through to luxury vehicles in the premi-
um segment, and also includes motorcycles, and will successively be 
supplemented by mobility services. 
The Commercial Vehicles Business Area focuses above all on the devel-
opment, production and sale of light commercial vehicles, trucks and 
buses under the Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Scania and MAN 
brands, supported by our original parts business and related services. 
Collaboration between commercial-vehicle brands MAN and Scania  
is managed and coordinated under the umbrella of Volkswagen  
Truck & Bus GmbH. The Commercial Vehicles Business Area’s portfolio 
ranges from pickups to heavy trucks and buses. 
The Power Engineering Business Area manages business activities 
involving large-bore diesel engines, turbomachinery, special gear units, 
propulsion components and testing systems. 
The activities of the Financial Services Division comprise dealer and 
customer financing, vehicle leasing, banking and insurance activities, 
as well as fleet management and Mobility offerings. 
With its brands, the Volkswagen Group has a presence in all relevant 
markets around the world, with Western Europe, China, the USA, Brazil 
and Mexico currently representing its key sales markets.
LOCATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
The Volkswagen Group’s production network is comprised of 120 loca-
tions in which passenger cars, commercial vehicles and motorcycles, 
as well as powertrains and components are manufactured.
With 71 locations, Europe remains our most important production 
region for vehicles and components. There are 28 sites in Germany 
alone. The Asia-Pacific region has 31 locations. We have five locations 
in North America and nine in South America. The Group operates four 
locations in Africa.
MARKETS
Despite difficult economic conditions, the Group – including our 
Chinese joint ventures – delivered a total of 10,741,455 cars and com-
mercial vehicles in 2017. The Group was able to maintain its strong 
competitive position in the reporting period thanks to a wide range of 
attractive and environmentally friendly vehicles. Worldwide, for the 
manufacture of its products, the Group purchased goods and services 
with a total value of €173.6 billion. This includes purchasing figures 
for our Chinese joint-venture companies. 
Further details of the Group’s development, holdings and changes 
affecting production locations or activities can be found in our 2017 
Annual Report.
