VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
28
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble MANAGeMeNt
In cooperation with experts in the field, we set up a Stakeholder Panel 
that has kept track of our sustainability reporting in particular over 
the past 20 years and provided a critical commentary. In 2017, the 
panel included some 200 national and international stakeholders 
from government, academia and research, the financial markets and 
civil society. We regularly conduct interviews and apply the findings 
in order to refine our understanding of our external stakeholders’ 
expectations.
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 
GRi 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-49
Our approach to the analysis and identification of significant issues is 
as follows:
1. Based on various global challenges, we drew up a list of 18 key 
action areas. We did this on the basis of the following sources: 
external studies, industry analyses and our brands’ stakeholder 
surveys, as well as internal guidelines such as the Group-wide 
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 and the individual strategies of our 
divisions. These action areas were largely defined on the basis 
of the findings of expert workshops held in the past addressing 
topics related to the economy, the environment and civil society.
2. In August, “Group Guideline No. 25: Sustainability Reporting” 
was approved by the Group Board of Management. This policy 
regulates organization and responsibilities, and also defines the 
process for the annual materiality analysis. 
3. The changeover to the new sustainability reporting framework of 
the Global Reporting Initiative – the GRI Standards –, which will 
become mandatory in July 2018, was carried out in cooperation 
with external experts. 
4. Following our evaluation of the modified reporting requirements 
and in line with the strategic approach of TOGETHER – Strategy 
2025, we have expanded our materiality analysis. Going forward, 
we will further intensify our focus on a holistic approach to 
sustainability which takes account of the Group perspective, the 
perceptions of our stakeholders, and the environmental, economic 
and social impacts of our business. For this reason, as a first step, 
we have decided to extend our key action areas to include the 
issues of integrity and human rights.
5. The 18 action areas identified by the Volkswagen Group were 
evaluated in terms of their strategic importance for TOGETHER – 
Strategy 2025 and their stakeholder relevance. 
6. In 2017, the implications of CSR-RUG (for the disclosure of 
nonfinancial information) and of the new GRI standards were 
discussed with representatives of the brands and corporate func-
tions in four workshops, and subsequently reconciled with our 
divisional strategies. 
7. Furthermore, in the Group CSR Meeting (GCM), we discussed the 
importance of taking an “impact perspective” when evaluating 
the action areas for our Group.
 
The outcome of this systematic materiality process was that, due to 
our size, our impacts and our resulting responsibilities, all minimum 
disclosure requirements under CSR-RUG were once again identified as 
material. This also applies to all topics defined as “material” by the GRI 
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. The graphic below shows 
our material action areas in line with CSR-RUG and the GRI Standards:
