VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
72
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  ManageMent aPPRoach
Management Approach
Volkswagen seeks to be a responsible employer and a good corporate 
citizen. Reliability, trustworthiness and fairness are our watchwords – 
no matter whether we are talking to individual employees, negotiating 
with collective representative bodies, collaborating with regional part-
ners in local infrastructure development projects, or cooperating with 
civil society initiatives and associations. Through these endeavors to 
foster sustainability and cultivate mutual understanding, as a socially 
responsible company, Volkswagen is seeking to contribute to the reali-
zation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Our new “Empower to transform” human resources strategy, which 
the Group’s Board of Management approved in October 2016, con-
tinues this long tradition. The strategy is intended to ensure that the 
Group, our brands and our workforce are well placed to adapt to the 
ever more rapidly evolving challenges we are facing. In this era of 
digital transformation and connected mobility, the paramount goal 
of our human resources strategy is to be seen as one of the most 
attractive employers in the world. In this way, we aim to help the 
Volkswagen Group become a global leader in sustainable mobility 
on an enduringly profitable basis.
We are well aware that it takes more than just good pay, a secure job 
and appealing work to make an employer attractive. This is one of 
the reasons we are constantly expanding our social engagement 
activities – as a good “corporate citizen”, we see ourselves as a local 
driver of growth, contributing to structural development, education 
and equal opportunities wherever we operate. Accordingly, support 
for social, cultural and community projects is a core element of our 
strategy at all 120 of the Group’s production sites.
HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY –  
“EMPOWER TO TRANSFORM” 
At the time of launching the Group’s TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 pro-
gram in 2016, we also introduced our new “We empower to perform” 
human resources strategy. Following a review of our strategic successes, 
this was then rebranded “Empower to transform” in November 2017. 
This strategy sets out five overarching objectives for personnel  
management in the Group:
 § The Volkswagen Group aims to be an excellent employer across  
all our brands and companies worldwide. 
 § Highly skilled and committed employees strive for excellence  
in innovation, value creation and customer focus. 
 § Sustainable work practices ensure optimal working conditions  
in factories and offices. 
 § An exemplary corporate culture creates a working atmosphere  
characterized by openness, mutual trust and cooperation.
 § While striving for operational excellence and adding strategic value, 
personnel management within the Group is strongly focused on 
employees.
 
In implementing this new strategy, the Volkswagen Group is con-
tinuing to pursue the successful key tenets of our human resources 
policy. As well as seeking to appropriately balance performance and 
remuneration, these include a strong stakeholder focus, comprehen-
sive employee participation rights, excellent training opportunities 
and the fostering of long-term service through systematic retention 
programs. Our new human resources strategy is also setting innova-
tive new trends. For instance, we are developing pioneering forms of 
work organization in our factories and offices, as well as new working 
time models to meet employees’ wishes for greater flexibility. 
the five action areas of our “empower to transform” strategy.
