VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
87
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: exeMPlaRy leadeRshiP and coRPoRate cUltURe PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: exeMPlaRy leadeRshiP and coRPoRate cUltURe
The Group’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board are  regularly 
updated on the progress we are making toward these targets.
PROPORTION OF WOMEN1  
in the Volkswagen Group in Germany (in %)
2017 2016
total management 11.4 11.0
total apprentices 28.8 29.5
industrial apprentices 23.0 23.3
commercial apprentices 55.4 58.6
students on “dual system” 
courses
33.6 33.5
University graduates recruited 2 30.3 26.0
Total Volkswagen Group in 
Germany
18.2 18.1
¹ Excl. Scania, MAN and Porsche.
² Volkswagen AG.
In the year under review, the proportion of women in managerial 
roles in the Volkswagen Group in Germany rose to 9.2% in senior 
management and 13.2% in management generally (as at year end, 
excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche). The proportion of women in 
top management increased from 4.7% in 2016 to 6.5% in the report-
ing year (as at year end, excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche). The 
proportion of women in management across the Group in Germany 
(excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche) therefore came to 11.4%, up 
from 11.0% the year before.
We are taking a variety of measures to encourage this trend. For 
 instance, 2017 saw a fourth cohort embark on our cross-brand 
management mentoring program, with 55 women participating 
(mainly from the Volkswagen Group in Germany). In addition, 
Volkswagen  offers the “Kompass” program specifically to encourage 
female talent to aim for a career in management. Over the reporting 
period, 60 women from Volkswagen AG, MAN, Volkswagen Sachsen 
GmbH, Volkswagen Osnabrück, Volkswagen Financial Services AG 
and  Autovision GmbH took part in this program. There is a key differ-
ence  between the objectives of the two programs: while “Kompass” 
prepares women for potential leadership roles at Volkswagen, the 
mentoring program is aimed at women in the talent pipeline who 
have already been identified as potential high flyers.
Volkswagen aims to attract female students at an early stage. Our 
 Germany-wide “Woman DrivING Award” and “Woman Experience 
Day” both target female engineering and IT students and graduates, 
aiming to interest them in technical careers with us. 
In addition, Volkswagen is aiming to increase the proportion of female 
skilled workers and group leaders in Germany to 10%. In the 2017 
fiscal year, the percentage of female skilled workers in the Volkswagen 
Group in Germany (excluding Scania, MAN and Porsche) was 7.6%, 
and 4.9% for group leaders.
In order to increase the proportion of female trainees in  industrial 
and technical trades from 23.0% in 2017 to 30% in 2020, we are 
speci fically seeking to attract female talent, for example by arranging 
special work experience and orientation days for young women. The 
aim of these events is to give these young women a taste of training in 
these technical occupations and help them make career  choices. For 
many years, the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche,  Volkswagen 
Commercial Vehicles, MAN and Volkswagen Financial Services 
brands have participated in the Germany-wide “Girls’ Day” or “Day of 
the  Future” event. During the reporting year, the “Girls’ Day” format 
 offered more than 2,000 female school students a practical insight into 
the industrial/technical careers on offer in the automotive sector. 
Another step on the way to becoming a family-friendly enterprise 
is our ongoing expansion of tailored childcare provision. Both in 
Germany and other countries, we have found that providing childcare 
facilities in the vicinity of company premises is beneficial. In addition 
to well-established existing facilities, in recent years we have set up a 
number of daycare centers near our operating locations. 
All German sites of the Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Audi, Porsche, 
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and MAN brands also offer childcare 
during school holidays. 
With these wide-ranging measures, we are confident that we are 
making a real contribution not only to greater diversity, but also to 
a culture of openness and inclusiveness across all our brands and 
companies.
Further information on our brands’ initiatives for advancing women  
can be found at:  
– SEAT | Women in management 
– Scania | Women Moving the city! 
– India | sakhi group
