VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
57
Products and Production  |  PoWertrain and  FueL strategy Products and Production  |  PoWertrain and  FueL strategy
We want to make sustainable, affordable mobility possible for the 
majority. To do so, we will continue to offer and improve our entire 
range of powertrains – from conventional to 100% electric. Even as 
we prepare for carbon­neutral, sustainable mobility, we will still need 
the combustion engine. Selected models like the Volkswagen up! 
with gasoline particulate filters already meet the stringent Euro 6 AG 
exhaust emissions standard, which will not become binding for all 
newly registered vehicles until September 2018. This year, we have 
already started the series production of an exceptionally fuel­efficient 
powertrain for our latest BlueMotion models, in the form of the 96 kW 
1.5 TSI evo. Thanks to our new “sailing” mode – whereby the engine 
is switched off while the vehicle is coasting – and other technical 
inno vations, the 1.5 TSI evo can achieve outstanding fuel efficiency 
of as little as 1.0 l/100 km in real­world conditions, depending on the 
customer’s driving style. 
Today, every new diesel built by our Group is fitted with an SCR 
 catalytic converter as standard, and we equip new gasoline engines 
with soot particulate filters across the board. 
We feel it is more important than ever for us to rigorously pursue 
our modular approach. So that we can offer a broad product portfolio 
as economically as possible, we are reducing the variety of individual 
modules. In the case of our conventional combustion engines, for 
 example, we will cut the number of variants within the Group by 
more than one third over the long term. 
As vehicles become increasingly electrified, CO? emissions in the prod­
uct life cycle are steadily shifting back toward the production phase; 
that is to say, the production of electric vehicles results in significantly 
higher CO? emissions than does the production of conventional vehi­
cles, due in particular to battery production.
During the use phase, however, the tables are turned in favor of 
electric vehicles. If we consider both the CO? emissions resulting from 
the production of fuel or generation of electricity during a vehicle’s 
service life (approx. 200,000 km or 125,000 miles), as well as the CO? 
emissions produced by the actual combustion of fuel (in conventional 
vehicles), electric vehicles show a decided advantage. This advantage 
is so great that despite higher CO? emissions during the production 
phase, electric vehicles have a better carbon footprint over their entire 
life cycle than conventionally powered vehicles. This applies almost 
regardless of the electricity mix used by the electric vehicles (with the 
exception of heavily coal­dependent electricity mixes as found in e.g. 
China or Poland).
ROADMAP BATTERY CELL CHEMISTRY AND ENERGY DENSITY
2014 2017 2018 2020 2025
Lithium ion technology New battery technologies
range*
* basis: eGolf with comparable battery volume
Up to 190 km
230 Wh/l
Up to 300 km
410 Wh/l
Up to 380 km
650 Wh/l
Up to 420 km
700 Wh/l
Up to 500 km
800 Wh/l
Up to 700 km
1,000 Wh/l
