VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
20
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  toGetheR – stRAteGy 2025
In 2016, the inception of TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 launched the 
biggest change process in the history of Volkswagen. Our new program 
for the future is making the Volkswagen Group more focused, efficient, 
innovative and sustainable – bringing us closer to our customers and 
setting us on a steady course of profitable growth. It defines the frame-
work and key building blocks of our vision – to become a world-leading 
provider of sustainable mobility.
Setting our sights on 2025 shows that we are thinking and acting  
long-term, looking forward to the future. The term “TOGETHER” de-
scribes the collective mindset within the Volkswagen Group, which will 
be even more important for our sustainable success going forward. 
With the help of this Group strategy, we in the Volkswagen Group are 
working together to thrill our customers with amazing vehicles and 
advanced, flexible mobility solutions – building a portfolio of strong 
brands that will meet their many different needs now and in the 
future. 
Every day, we assume and exercise responsibility for the environ-
ment, safety and society, as we seek to become a role model in these 
areas. Integrity, reliability, quality and passion are the cornerstones 
of our work. By pursuing these goals and principles, we strive for 
techno logical leadership in the industry, strengthen our competitive 
profitability and, at the same time, remain an excellent, safe and 
dependable employer.
The Code of Collaboration that forms part of our program for the  
future is the foundation on which our Group strategy rests. It describes 
how we cooperate within the Group and in our daily interactions, 
based on such core values as “open and honest”, “uncomplicated”, 
“without prejudice”, “on an equal footing” and “for one another”.
THE FOUR BUILDING BLOCKS OF OUR PROGRAM FOR 
THE FUTURE: TOGETHER – STRATEGY 2025
Our Group strategy comprises a raft of far-reaching strategic decisions 
and practical initiatives, all essentially aiming to safeguard the Group’s 
long-term future and generate profitable growth. It comprises four 
building blocks, embracing a total of 16 strategic Group initiatives. 
The first building block is the transformation of our core automotive 
business. Developing, building and selling vehicles will remain essen-
tial for the Volkswagen Group going forward. However, there will be 
far-reaching and lasting changes to this business in the future. This is 
why we are comprehensively restructuring our core business for this 
new era of mobility. 
Establishing a new mobility solutions business is the second building 
block of our Group strategy. Within this business area, we are develop-
ing innovative and efficient mobility services that are also attractive, 
profitable and tailored to customer requirements – with the aim of be-
ing one of the leading provider in this growth market moving forward.
With the third building block, we are boosting the Group’s traditional 
innovative strengths and placing them on an even broader footing. 
This is necessary not only for the transformation of our core business, 
but also for building our new mobility services business. To this end, 
we are pushing ahead with the digital transformation of all parts of 
the Company. 
We aim to achieve lasting success in tomorrow’s world of mobility by evolving into a global leader 
in the provision of sustainable mobility. With this in mind, we have embedded our program for 
the future, TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, at the heart of our corporate activities.
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025
TOGETHER – STRATEGY 2025
