VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
118
Appendix  |  RATinGS And indiCeS
Because analysts and investors view corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) and sustainability as key indicators of forward-thinking corpo-
rate governance, their recommendations and decisions are increas-
ingly based on factors that include companies’ CSR and sustainability 
profiles. They look to sustainability ratings in particular to evaluate 
a company’s performance in terms of environmental compatibility, 
social responsibility and economy. Achieving top marks in these rat-
ings not only sends a clear signal to stakeholders, but also helps make 
a company more attractive as an employer and boosts the motivation 
of its employees.
STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
Before the emissions issue, Volkswagen held leading positions in 
sustainability rankings and indices such as the Dow Jones Sustain-
ability Indices, the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project, Sustainalytics and 
oekom research. Now, however, Volkswagen has been downgraded or 
removed from these ratings. 
In terms of customer satisfaction with their products, Audi and 
Porsche are leaders in the core European markets when compared 
with other Group brands and with their competitors. The other 
brands in the Group also score higher than competing brands. In 
terms of customer satisfaction with dealers, all Group brands achieve 
figures at or above the level of the competition. The Volkswagen 
Passenger Cars brand has maintained a high level of customer loyalty 
in its core European markets for several years in a row. However, the 
emissions issue had a negative impact on brand image, brand trust, 
and customer satisfaction with products compared with 2015. The 
loyalty of Audi, Porsche and ŠKODA customers has kept these brands 
in the upper rankings in comparison with competitors for a number 
of years. 
 
detailed information on the Volkswagen Group’s awards can be found in  
the more detailed Sustainability sections of our brands and regions.
PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION
Volkswagen Group wins fleet awards in the UK: five Golds in the Fleet 
News Award 2017; Audi UK named “Fleet Manufacturer of the year”. 
(At the presentation of the Fleet News Award 2017 by UK trade journal 
Fleet News, the Volkswagen Group succeeded in taking five first places. 
The best fleet models in the UK in 2016 were evaluated in a total of 
12 automobile categories. This year’s Fleet News Award was present-
ed in London for the twenty-ninth time. The jury, made up of fleet 
customers, Fleet News editors and representatives of associations and 
carmakers, assessed the vehicles’ quality, maintenance costs (including 
residual values) and CO2 emissions. 
The evening’s overall winner was the Audi brand, with three first places. 
In the “Best Compact Premium Car” category, the jury put the A3 in 
first place, while the A4 took first place in the “Best Premium Car” class. 
Being voted “Fleet Manufacturer of the year” was the evening’s icing on 
the cake for the Audi brand. The ŠKODA brand won another first place 
for the Group with the Superb in the “Best Upper Medium Car” category, 
as did the SEAT Ateca in the “Best Mid-Size SUV” class.).
At the WAVE Trophy 2017 event in Switzerland, the new e-Golf won a 
double victory. The world’s biggest e-mobile rally was held in Switzer-
land in June. It lasted eight days and covered around 1,600 kilometers. 
Leading the rest of the pack were two e-Golfs, which eventually finished 
first and second – clearly demonstrating that e-mobility is suitable for 
everyday use and also makes for a great driving experience. The natural 
gas-powered VW Caddy 1.4 TGI took the trophy in the 5-seater van 
class.
Further successes were achieved in the VCS Environmental ranking 
published in March 2017. In the subcompact class, the VW eco up!, 
Škoda Citigo and Seat Mii, all equipped with the 1.0 natural-gas engine, 
took first place with equal points, to become the test winners in 2017. 
In the compact (small family) class, the Audi A3 Sportback TFSI g-tron 
took first place just ahead of the VW Golf TGI; again, both run on 
natural gas.
Ratings and Indices
