VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
38
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt
SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS
The Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept is based on the 
“Volkswagen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its 
relationships with business partners (Code of Conduct for Business 
Partners)”. The latter embeds our expectations of our business 
partners’ conduct with respect to key environmental, social and 
compliance standards in our contractual agreements. We also call 
on our tier 1 suppliers to pass these requirements down along the 
supply chain. Among other things, these requirements are based on 
the principles of the UN Global Compact, the International Chamber 
of Commerce’s Business Charter for Sustainable Development, and 
the relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization. 
 
 
 
Before we consider working with potential suppliers, we use a country 
risk analysis and other data to obtain a clearer picture of the social, en-
vironmental and human-rights risks in the areas where they operate. 
This analysis is based on third-party information and the results of 
in-house analyses. We also subject all potential new business partners 
and suppliers to an integrity check (Business Partner Check). 
During the fiscal year, prior to being awarded contracts, 137 supplier 
 locations were evaluated against sustainability criteria based on self- 
assessments. 89 of them were subjected to further on-site verification 
by an external specialist.
Our early-warning systems also screen, for example, press and internet 
coverage of relevant sustainability issues. 
Before submitting a quotation, our suppliers must confirm that they 
acknowledge our sustainability requirements; this explicit acknowl-
edgment must be repeated after 12 months have elapsed if they wish 
to submit new quotations. These requirements are an integral part of 
our contracts with all suppliers to General Procurement and with all 
suppliers of production materials. They apply to all goods and services 
purchased worldwide.
full details of Volkswagen Group requirements regarding sustainability in its 
relationships with business partners can be found at: 
http://www.vwgroupsupply.com/one-kbp-pub/en/kbp_public/information/ 
sustainability_1/sustainability.html
CONFLICT MINERALS AND SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 
OF RAW MATERIALS  
To us, sustainable supplier management means providing special 
protection to those groups along our supply chain who are potentially 
at high risk of human rights abuses. In this context, we regard the 
due diligence requirements for building responsible supply chains of 
minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas as an additional 
contractual requirement for our suppliers. 
In 2017, to comply with our duty of care and build responsible 
supply chains of minerals from countries affected by conflicts or 
classified as high-risk, we published – among other things – a guide-
line on sustainable raw material procurement. It can be found at: 
www.volkswagenag.com/en/sustainability/policy.html. This step also 
reflects our commitment to fulfilling the stipulations of the OECD 
Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals 
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. In this respect, we ex-
pect our suppliers to refrain from using any minerals sourced from 
non-compliant smelters. Minerals are considered conflict minerals if 
non-governmental armed groups are supported directly or indirectly 
through their extraction, transportation, trade, handling, processing 
or export. 
Upon request, suppliers and subcontractors must disclose to us the 
smelters or refineries from which they source the metals tin, tantalum, 
tungsten and gold. In 2017, suppliers provided us with specific infor-
mation on their supply chains that enabled us to identify 315 smelters 
of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. In cases of suspected non-compli-
ance, we also expect our suppliers to disclose the sources of materials 
that may have some connection with human rights violations such as 
child, forced or compulsory labor, as well as any other forms of mod-
ern slavery or human trafficking. This also applies to labor conditions 
in the extraction of raw materials such as cobalt and mica. 
For this purpose, we advise suppliers to use the standardized report-
ing template available from the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). 
With the help of data provided by RMI, we inform suppliers in business 
relationships with non-compliant smelters and/or refiners about alter-
native options for working with conflict-free smelters and/or refiners. 
We call on our suppliers to practice due diligence along the supply 
chain. This includes implementing measures to ensure that the min-
erals used by suppliers – in particular tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold 
and cobalt – do not directly or indirectly promote or support armed 
conflicts, and are in no way connected to human rights violations.
In 2017, as a member of the DRIVE Sustainability Working Group 
(www.drivesustainability.org), we partnered with other automotive 
manufacturers to launch an initiative on raw materials sourcing. 
This involves systematically identifying sustainability risks in the ex-
traction of raw materials and devising measures to reduce these risks.
