VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
68
Products and Production  |  Production andLogistics 
GREEN LOGISTICS  
Logistics contributes to our Group’s eco-friendly orientation by ana-
lyzing the entire transport chain in terms of emissions. 
Our Green Logistics initiative took an approach based on what is 
known as the A-S-I-F model, originally developed by GIZ (Deutsche 
Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH). The aim is to 
promote alternative modes of transportation, as well as sustainable, 
energy-efficient transport systems, in order to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
In brief, this provides Logistics with the following guidelines for 
 implementing specific measures: 
A – Avoid: avoid transportation wherever possible 
S –  Shift: move over to a more environmentally compatible  
mode of transport
I – Improve: use better or more modern technology 
F – Fuels: use alternative drive systems
This model was used to define universally valid internal environ-
mental prin ciples, from which we then developed strategic policies 
and guidelines. These are intended to ensure that our environmental 
requirements are implemented in our logistical processes worldwide.
An important starting point for reducing CO2 emissions is the selec-
tion of the mode of transport. One of the most efficient options in 
terms of transport capacity is maritime transport. To further improve 
the environmental sustainability of ship transport, Volkswagen Kon-
zernlogistik will put two charter ships powered by liquefied natural 
gas (LNG) into service from 2019. 
Starting in 2019, two eco-friendly vehicle transporters, powered by an 
engine developed by MAN Diesel & Turbo, will travel between Emden 
in Germany and North America.
In September 2017, we held an LNG Truck Day to dispel doubts and 
reservations regarding the new technology and actively support the 
expansion of the LNG fuel station network in Germany. Among others, 
regional freight forwarders, gas providers and representatives from 
the German Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure 
and the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy took part. 
Furthermore, since 2014, we have gradually been adopting the Euro 5 
exhaust emissions standard as the minimum standard for all new 
contracts in Volkswagen AG’s European freight forwarding business. 
All in all the aforementioned measures show a selection of the various 
Green Logistics activities within the company and let the Volkswagen 
Group come closer to its ambitious goals for the future. 
Further information on our brands’ “Ecologically Exemplary Production” initiative 
can be found at: 
– Audi | dBeco plus 
NATURE CONSERVATION  
Inevitably, industrial growth has an impact on natural resources. This 
is why we do not simply treat measures to preserve biodiversity in 
our Group as a temporary project; they have been an integral part of 
our environmental management strategy for years.
Biodiversity signifies the variety of life on our planet, encapsulating 
the multiplicity of species, genetic differences within species, and 
the diversity of ecosystems. We rely on it as the basis for our contin-
ued existence: healthy food, clean water, fertile soils and a balanced 
climate. Because of the worldwide decline of biodiversity, the United 
Nations declared the current decade to be the “UN Decade on Biodi-
versity”.
Since 2007, we have been committed to the protection of biodiversity 
at Group locations around the world. The objectives of more than 
80 projects across eight brands range from protecting water resources 
and various species through to reforestation and environmental edu-
cation. Representatives of and institutes in the respective regions are 
frequently involved, as are NGOs and scientific advisers. 
Volkswagen has been committed to protecting biodiversity since 2007 
and is a founder member of the Biodiversity in Good Company e.V. 
initiative. In our mission statement, we have pledged to support the 
protection of species across all our locations. To do so, we work closely 
together with our local suppliers. Our membership of the Biodiversity 
in Good Company e.V. initiative is temporarily on hold as a result of 
the diesel issue.
The protection of biodiversity is an integral part of our environmental 
management strategy. By reducing greenhouse gas emissions and 
using resources as efficiently as possible, we are helping to achieve 
the objectives set down in the UN Convention on Biological  Diversity 
(CBD). To raise public awareness of the importance of protecting 
species, and to increase general knowledge on the subject, Volkswagen 
is making efforts to network with major players in business, politics, 
civil society and academia. 
To consolidate our commitment to biodiversity across the Group, 
we have, among other things, appointed a biodiversity officer and 
commissioned external assessments of the risks to water, the soil and 
biodiversity across our brands. Based on this work, we are currently 
formulating targets and methods for making our active nature con-
servation work more transparent and accountable in the future, and 
for better assessing the effectiveness of our many projects.  
 
Volkswagen FS AG is currently engaged in several projects with 
Naturschutzbund Deutschland e.V. (NABU) including, for  example, a 
peatland conservation project. In addition to supporting the  German 
Peatland Conservation Fund (13 national project areas to date), 
we also sponsor the European Union’s LIFE Peat Restore Project, 
 organized jointly by NABU with partners in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia 
and Estonia.   
Further information can be found in the annex: 
Plants in the vicinity of nature conservation areas  p. 99.
Further information about nature conservation projects can be found  
on our csr world map as well as under: 
– Lamborghini | Lamborghini for biodiversity  
– Ducati | Bee monitoring  
–  Volkswagen Financial Services | Volkswagen and german nature  
and Biodiversity conservation union (naBu)
