VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
23
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  toGetheR – stRAteGy 2025 stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  custoMeR sAtisfActioN AND custoMeR loyAlty  
Customer Satisfaction 
and Customer Loyalty  
As part of our future program, we have developed a sales and market-
ing strategy aimed at inspiring customers on a whole new level under 
the slogan “customer delight”. We regard ourselves as an innovative 
and sustainable mobility provider for all commercial and private 
customers worldwide – with a unique product portfolio encompassing 
twelves successful brands and innovative financial services.
We will implement the TOGETHER sales strategy step by step over 
the coming years. In the focus area of new sales, for example, we are 
realizing innovative sales and service strategies together with our 
sales partners. In the focus area of the customer ecosystem, we are 
implementing platforms for a seamless digital brand experience at 
all customer touchpoints – this is enabling us to meet ever-grow-
ing customer expectations as well as increased data protection 
standards. In the focus area of steering, we are optimizing how our 
brands capitalize profitably on market opportunities. 
Optimal coverage of markets, customer segments and customer bud-
gets are at the heart of a strategic Group initiative. To this end, we are 
establishing automobile-specific customer segmentation to steer the 
positioning of our brands. At the same time, we are examining global 
markets for potential revenue sources. In 2017, we rolled out this 
methodology in Europe and China and agreed on the region-specific, 
customer-oriented brand territories for product positioning. From 
2018, the new methodology will be applied in the Volkswagen Group’s 
product processes; other brands will also be included.
The Volkswagen Group aims its sales activities at inspiring its cus-
tomers. This is our top priority, as enthusiastic customers remain 
loyal to our brands and recommend our products and services to 
others. In addition to satisfaction with our products and services, we  
value our customers’ emotional connection to our brands. It is im-
portant for us to retain customers and win new ones. To measure 
our success in this area, we collect data on and analyze three strategic 
indicators for the major passenger car-producing brands:
 § Net promoter score: Proportion of customers who would recom-
mend us to others minus the proportion of customers who would 
not recommend us. In terms of customers’ willingness to recom-
mend them, Porsche and ŠKODA lead the core European markets 
when compared to other Group brands and competitors.
 § Loyalty rate: Proportion of customers of our car brands who have 
bought another Group model. The loyalty of Volkswagen Passenger 
Cars, Audi, Porsche and ŠKODA customers has kept these brands 
in the upper loyalty rankings in comparison with competitors for 
a number of years. Compared to other manufacturer groups, the 
Volkswagen Group therefore holds the top spot, with a considerable 
margin over the competition.
 § Conquest rate: Newly acquired passenger car customers as a propor-
tion of all potential new customers. Here, too, we have a top ranking, 
primarily thanks to the good scores for the Volkswagen Passenger 
Cars brand. 
The downward trend in brand image and brand trust at the Volkswagen 
Passenger Cars brand following the diesel issue did not continue in 
2017. Instead, the first signs of recovery were evident. Porsche remains 
in top position in the image ranking.
We also use a strategic indicator to measure the satisfaction of cus-
tomers with our products and services in the truck and bus business:
 § Customer satisfaction: In the markets relevant for the Volkswagen 
Group, we aim to be one of the industry leaders in terms of the 
satisfaction rate for our commercial vehicle brands. To evaluate 
these criteria, we use customer satisfaction studies, which delivered 
positive satisfaction figures in line with our targets in the report-
ing period. 
In the financial services business, we use two strategic indicators:
 § Customer satisfaction: In addition to looking at customer satisfac-
tion with our products, we measure this by examining reviews of 
our service staff; both aspects are an indicator for our customer and 
service focus. The results continued their positive trend in 2017. 
To achieve our goal of very high customer satisfaction throughout 
the Financial Services Division by 2025, we regularly evaluate what 
action is needed and how ideas can be shared and implemented 
across different countries.
 § Customer loyalty: Trust in and loyalty to our services rely on cus-
tomer satisfaction with our product range and service. The loyalty 
scores that are regularly calculated based on product sales to our 
customers are impressive proof of customers’ trust in our financial 
services. Ambitious targets underscore the focus on customers and 
fulfilling their needs at Volkswagen Financial Services. 
