VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
42
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  iNteGRity
Integrity Because we value a neutral outside perspective, in 2016 we also appointed a Sustainability Council of experts in research, academia, 
science and politics. With their independent expertise and recom-
mendations, they support our efforts to fulfill our social responsibili-
ties, promote integrity, foster our stakeholder dialog, and advance the 
steady, sustainable development of our Company. 
Furthermore, the remuneration of the Group Board of Management is 
geared to the Company’s long-term results. We have overhauled our re-
muneration system to balance the interests of our different stakeholder 
groups, ensuring that it:
 § aligns with established market practice and regulatory requirements
 § is geared to capital markets and reflects personnel-related transfor-
mation objectives
 § incorporates the strategic goals of our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025
 § sets ambitious goals for sustainable corporate growth
 § incorporates an extended long-term perspective
 § represents a key element of the Group’s strategic realignment
 § does not reflect any past events, hence focuses entirely on the future
 § is based on a transparent target-compensation approach
 § includes a total remuneration cap that is markedly lower than the 
caps for individual remuneration components
 § is based on clear remuneration policy guidelines
 § is transparent and easy to understand
further information on the work of the sustainability council can be found  
in our sustainability magazine shift 2017 at:  
https://www.volkswagenag.com/en/sustainability/shift.html
The massive loss of trust that followed the diesel issue in particular 
made it clear that our primary aim must be to become a role model 
for integrity. This intention represents one of the key objectives of our 
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025. In our integrity program, we are pursuing 
a three-dimensional approach that unites the dimensions of corporate 
culture, integrity and compliance:
TOGETHER, INTEGRITY, CULTURE AND COMPLIANCE REPRESENT 
VOLKSWAGEN’S NEW SELF-IMAGE
CULTURE
COM
PLIANCE IN
TE
GR
IT
Y
How do we work 
together?
What 
attitudes 
do I adopt?
What 
are our rules 
and policies?
The integrity management function is responsible for planning, 
preparing and implementing programs and projects that aim to raise, 
clarify and intensify our collective awareness of integrity, as well as 
reinforcing a shared culture of integrity within the Company. On  
1 January 2016, we also created the Group Board of Management  
position for Integrity and Legal Affairs. 
