VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
82
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees
PREVENTIVE HEALTHCARE AND REHABILITATION
Preventing accidents and avoiding risks in the workplace is one side 
of the occupational health equation; individual preventive measures 
are the other. The Volkswagen Checkup – a free, comprehensive 
health screening program for all employees – is now established at 
all Volkswagen AG German sites and helps employees stay fit and 
healthy and maintain their performance. Employees appreciate the 
high-quality diagnostics and follow-up preventive healthcare and 
exercise programs. 13,237 checkups were carried out at Volkswagen 
AG sites in 2017, slightly below the level of the previous year, in 
which 14,323 checkups were performed.
This checkup has now been successfully rolled out to almost all 
international sites. Other preventive healthcare programs have 
been brought into line with Group-wide standards. In many cases, 
 country-specific supplementary examinations, such as HIV and 
 tuber culosis tests, have been added. 
At many sites, we offer a tailored rehabilitation program to reinte-
grate employees following serious or prolonged illness, providing 
specific job-related support at an early stage. The aim is to restore 
an  m ployee’s ability to work within three to six months at most.
Further information on our brands’ programs for healthcare  
in the workplace can be found at: 
– ŠKODA | Prevention in focus
At Volkswagen AG, a rehabilitation program may also include specially 
tailored services, depending on a person’s individual needs in each 
case. Examples are “JobReha” which offers one to three weeks of 
outpatient, day-patient or inpatient treatment, mainly for muscu-
loskeletal problems, and the “RehaFit” program, which focuses on 
orthopedic or psychological rehabilitation. Other examples include 
physiotherapy and general or targeted stamina-building exercises 
at workplace fitness centers. We are also steadily expanding our 
provision of support and counseling services for employees with 
mental-health or psychosomatic problems.
If an employee falls ill, our involvement is not solely limited to pro-
viding assistance of a medical nature, however. Volkswagen AG also 
supplements benefits paid by social insurance providers, such as sick 
pay, and provides support to relatives of employees who die. The com-
pany also has a collective accident insurance scheme which insures 
employees against accidents resulting in death or disability. In excep-
tional circumstances of financial need, Volkswagen AG can also offer 
employees short-term loans.
Robots perform tasks that would not be ergonomic  
for humans.
