VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
123
Appendix  |  independenT pRACTiTiOneRS RepORTAppendix  |  independenT pRACTiTiOneRS RepORT
 §  Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the 
Non-financial Report
 §  Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Non-financial 
Report
 §  Evaluation of the implementation of group management 
requirements, processes and specifications regarding data 
collection through onsite visits at selected sites and brands  
of the VW Group
 § Volkswagen AG (Wolfsburg, Germany)
 §  Volkswagen do Brasil Indústria de Veículos Automotores Ltda. 
(Anchieta, Brasil)
 §  Volkswagen de México, S.A. de C.V. (Puebla, Mexico) 
 §  Volkswagen of South Africa (Pty) Ltd. (Uitenhage,  
South Africa)
 §  Volkswagen Slovakia a.s. (Bratislava, Slovakia)
 §  SAIC Volkswagen Automotive Co. Ltd. Shanghai  
(Shanghai/Anting, China)
 §  Audi AG (Ingolstadt, Germany)
 § Audi AG (Neckarsulm, Germany)
 § Audi Hungaria Motor Kft. (Gy?r, Hungary)
 § Porsche Leipzig GmbH (Leipzig, Germany)
 § Škoda Auto a.s. (Mladá Boleslav, Czech Republic)
 §  Assessment of the aggregation of Scope-3-GHG-emissions 
 (categories 1 and 11) on group level
 §  Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in 
the annual and consolidated financial statements and in the 
group management report which is combined with the 
Company’s management report
 §  Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information
ASSURANCE CONCLUSION
Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence 
obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 
1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has not been prepared, in all 
material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction 
with 289c to 289e HGB and the relevant GRI-Criteria.
INTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE REPORT
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with 
the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for 
purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform 
the Company about the results of the limited assurance engagement. 
The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) 
decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We 
do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.
Frankfurt am Main, 23 February 2018
PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Frank Hübner Michael Conrad
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
[German public auditor] [German public auditor] 
