VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
69
Products and Production  |  Production andLogistics Products and Production  |  Product and road saFety
Product and 
Road Safety
We want to keep our customers as safe as possible on the road by 
offering them a comprehensive range of efficient, affordable and 
practical powertrain technologies combined with smart mobility 
concepts. These embrace passive and active vehicle safety systems, as 
well as climate and environmental protection. 
QUALITY ASSURANCE AND PRODUCT SAFETY  
Our customers attach the utmost importance to product safety. So we 
take a meticulous approach to quality assurance along the entire value 
chain, from procurement right through to sales.
Right at the start, when a vehicle is first being developed, we use stan­
dardized processes to exclude potential use risks. At the next stage, 
production, our product safety officers rely on lessons­learned processes 
to ensure that our products stay safe. Because the approach followed by 
our product safety officers has proved its worth, we are now gradually im­
plementing it among our suppliers, hence along our entire supply chain.
We have established quality specifications for the materials and operating 
fluids we use that focus not only on their functional properties but also 
on their longevity. These specifications provide the framework within 
which Volkswagen’s materials specialists, for example, define and verify 
components’ resistance to aggressive media.
Odors and emissions from plastic components inside the vehicle can im­
pair passengers’ wellbeing. To avoid these issues, we check the properties 
of the materials and components we use with great care. Our internal 
Group standard VW 50180 sets down our requirements for material 
characteristics. And suppliers must demonstrate that they are complying 
with these requirements by the sample prototype inspection stage at the 
very latest. Suppliers’ compliance data for selected components used in 
Group vehicles is further verified in our laboratories. In addition to check­
ing materials and components, we also evaluate odors and emissions in 
the passenger compartment when we start production of new concept 
vehicles and production vehicles.
More and more of us live in cities. Traffic noise impairs our quality of life. 
We want to reduce emissions not only inside our vehicles, but also wher­
ever the use of vehicles is increasing. For this reason, we are working to 
produce reliable forecasts of the potential impacts of future solutions on 
urban air quality, noise pollution and traffic flow (impact assessments). 
This is where models and simulations make an important contribution 
by helping us to develop the right solutions for the future – solutions that 
are more precisely tailored and optimized for their intended purposes.
But we are also going one step further. We are using a specially developed 
tool to calculate noise pollution levels in cities and further develop our 
understanding of the role of the automobile, assess interactions between 
different noise sources, and evaluate various measures for reducing noise. 
Our aim is to improve the noise situation for urban residents in general 
by entering into dialog with cities and fellow noise emitters.
Volkswagen Group companies are obliged by law to provide users of their 
products with appropriate information about the risks that may arise 
from their foreseeable misuse, and even from their intended use. Our 
Group companies fulfill this obligation by providing instruction manuals 
and, in specific instances, placing warning stickers inside the vehicle. 
Further more, since 1 December 2011, all passenger vehicles manufac­
tured in Germany must carry a weight­based efficiency label similar to 
the energy consumption labels used for household appliances. Efficiency 
ratings range from A+ (highly efficient) to G (inefficient). The label also 
informs users of fuel consumption, annual fuel costs, CO? emissions and 
annual tax charges under Germany’s CO?­based vehicle tax. In the case of 
electric vehicles, the label provides information on energy consumption. 
All of our brands publish the details of their models’ fuel consumption 
and CO? emissions on their websites. 
SAFE VEHICLES AND ROAD SAFETY  
The ultimate aim of our Vision Zero is: zero fatalities or severe injuries 
in or due to vehicles manufactured by the Volkswagen Group. To 
 progress towards this vision, we have set ourselves the following goals:
 § avoidable accidents should not happen,
 § unavoidable accidents will be positively mitigated,
 § the severity of accidents will be minimized.
 
To achieve these goals, the Group’s accident researchers collect data 
from real­world traffic accidents. Their investigations include:
 § technical analyses of the vehicles involved to establish the technical 
severity of the accident,
 § medical analyses of injuries suffered by people involved in the 
accident,
 § psychological analyses of the circumstances surrounding the 
 accident.
 
We use the findings of these analyses to develop measures to protect 
people inside and outside the vehicle. These include the development 
of bodywork concepts and occupant retention systems, as well as new 
driver assistance systems capable of avoiding accidents or mitigating 
their consequences.
In best­case scenarios, the resulting active systems help to avoid 
accidents completely. Especially noteworthy are emergency braking 
systems (such as Front Assist) and lane­keeping systems (such as Lane 
Assist). Where the collision turns out to be unavoidable, a raft of pas­
sive systems ensures that the consequences of the accident for vehicle 
occupants are either obviated or mitigated. In particular, the coordi­
nated interaction of the vehicle structure with the occupant retention 
system plays a central role in our thinking.
In our efforts to make mobility safer, we contribute our expertise and 
experience to the German Road Safety Council (DVR) – of which we are 
an active member – and to major conferences on vehicle safety held 
around the world.  
