VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
93
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  social ResPonsibility PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  social ResPonsibility
Alongside these projects, which are directly supported by Volkswagen 
or the Volkswagen Works Council, we also encourage our employees 
to volunteer for local causes in their free time. To coordinate and 
provide targeted support for volunteering activities, we have made 
the “ Volkswagen pro Ehrenamt” (Volkswagen Supports Volunteering) 
initiative an integral part of our personnel management. Since 2007, 
around 2,600 volunteers have been matched to suitable vacancies 
through this volunteer exchange.
Volkswagen employees who are looking for a new challenge following 
retirement can register with our company “Senior Experts” team. 
This offers them the opportunity to contribute their expertise region-
ally or  globally, either within the company or by providing voluntary 
support to external organizations. In 2017, around 135 Senior Experts 
took part in projects of their choosing, putting their accumulated 
specialist knowledge to good use and contributing to a valuable inter-
generational exchange of experience. During the reporting year, 
28 departments and more than 20 Volkswagen sites worldwide 
 benefited from the program. 
 
 
HELPING REFUGEES: MEETING,  
EDUCATING, INTEGRATING 
Since the summer of 2015, we have been enthusiastically helping 
to support the wave of refugees arriving in Germany. At present, we 
 believe the most urgent priorities for refugees are to learn German 
and acquire entry-level qualifications, as these are the keys for 
unlocking access to further education and training and entering 
the labor market. By the end of 2017, we had helped approximately 
3,500  refugees access language and foundation training courses. 
The help provided by the Volkswagen Group, its brands and com-
panies centered on the following three strands, in which the follow-
ing  activities were organized for refugees during 2017:
detailed information on our brand’s social engagement activities  
can be found on our csR world map under:  
– Volkswagen | volkswagen supports volunteering 
– ŠKODA | employee donation 
– Bentley | voluntary community work 
– Lamborghini | Partnership teatro comunale 
– Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle | Foundation “on the bult”  
– Scania | scania for nutrition 
– Volkswagen Financial Services | Project training wheels  
– MAN | education for a better future in africa 
– Argentina | volunteer group 
– India | Mobile medical service and water shortage 
– Mexico | help for earthquake victims 
– USA | volkswagen group of america Foundation 
– China | german 8
 § Meeting: Providing support for several thousand refugees by 
means of donations, volunteering and social events.
 § Educating: Grants for 100 refugees; language and integration 
 courses for 1,600+ refugees over several months; classes for 
 systematic help with integration and employability skills for 90 
refugees; support for minors at school.
 § Integrating: Work placements and internships for 500 refugees; 
skills assessments and career guidance for over 1,300 refugees, 
introductory training, vocational training and work for around 
130 refugees.
In addition, we complement the large-scale voluntary work of our 
workforce by contributing the services of experts, making dona-
tions in kind and providing vehicles for aid organizations. Evolving 
out of initial efforts to provide immediate aid, our brands and their 
 employees have been involved in developing a wide variety of short 
and long-term social support initiatives.
At various stages of their educational journey, we also help  refugees 
learn the language, obtain qualifications and understand  German 
 culture. This begins with the very youngest: the Volkswagen  Employees’ 
Foundation supports children and adolescents through three years 
of school by funding language learning, integration and the acqui-
sition of qualifications with donations totaling around €2.5 million. 
We also help refugees obtain university degrees. In cooperation 
with the charity start-up “Kiron Open Higher Education”, we sponsor 
 university places in IT and engineering. 
Further information on our brands’ qualification offers for refugees  
can be found at:  
– Volkswagen Commercial Vehicle | german 360° 
– MAN | integration of refugees 
– Argentina | Ferdinand Porsche institute
