VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
92
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  social ResPonsibility
MAIN CORPORATE SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 
We give donations in cash and in kind to support activities and 
projects primarily devoted to research and education, culture, sports 
and social causes. Donations may only be given to recognized 
non-profit organizations or ones specifically endorsed to receive 
donations. We do not make any donations to political parties, party- 
affiliated foundations or individual politicians. In the reporting 
 period,  Volkswagen AG made donations amounting to €28.2 million.
Added to this amount are the donations made by our  employees, 
which go to help support people in need in the vicinity of 
 Volkswagen AG’s various locations. In 2017, Wolfsburg employees 
alone donated more than €460,000. 
One of our largest projects is our strategic partnership with the 
 German Red Cross, which will remain in place for the next three years.
Since the summer of 2003, this initiative has also included the collec-
tion of “spare cents”, whereby Volkswagen employees in Germany and 
abroad donate the odd cents on their monthly pay slips to the “One 
Hour for the Future” campaign. The funds raised are used to support  
a total of 140 projects in seven countries around the world.
Another workforce initiative led to the sale of sustainably farmed 
 fair-trade products in the company’s cafes and restaurants, where the 
sale of products bearing the Fairtrade seal has been promoted since 
1999. Through this commitment, we are helping producers in devel-
oping countries establish socially sustainable businesses. 
The Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation, established in 2011, is 
playing an increasingly significant role in our community activities. 
This charitable foundation aims to support youth outreach as well 
as vocational education and training at all levels, with projects that 
focus on the neighborhoods of Group sites worldwide. It runs projects 
in cooperation with children’s charity terre des hommes. Since 2011, 
the Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation has launched or supported 
more than 20 projects in Germany and elsewhere. 
educating – language courses for various levels of ability  
(here at aUdi ag).
integrating – Work placements offer initial insights  
into working in germany.
