VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
13
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  letteR to  ouR stAkeholDeRs stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  letteR to  ouR stAkeholDeRs
Volkswagen will play a courageous, consistent and responsible role in the systemic shift to new drive  
technologies. And we will do so without neglecting current technologies and vehicle projects. This is  
how we will earn money today so we can invest it in tomorrow.  
The recommendations of the Group Sustainability Council we appointed in 2016 should help to restore 
the trust and confidence of our employees, our customers and the general public. By working together, we 
aim to prepare our Group for the future, molding Volkswagen into the perfect model of a corporation that 
operates sustainably, with integrity – and is at the same time commercially successful. 
For a long time, Volkswagen could be found at the top of the most prestigious sustainability indices – and 
we aim to reclaim that position. As a Group, our intrinsic mission is to make a key contribution to solving 
critical problems. We want to work with others to mitigate climate change and improve urban air quality. 
This is why we are setting ourselves new, ambitious production targets. By 2025, we intend to reduce neg-
ative environmental impacts in our production plants by a further 20%. This means 45% less energy, CO?, 
water, solvents and waste per vehicle compared with our 2010 baseline.
Traditionally, the social aspects of sustainability are very important to us at Volkswagen. Consequently, 
even at a time when the automotive industry is undergoing a fundamental transformation, we continue 
 to regard economic success and job security as equal priorities. We want to help shape the future of 
work in an increasingly digitalized world. We are committed to equal opportunities, education, stronger 
social values and support for disadvantaged people in all walks of life. Many thousands of our employees 
around the world are also working as volunteers in social and environmental projects. By doing so, they 
are making an important contribution to social cohesion – even outside the factory gates.
The Sustainability Report for 2017 before you will give you an insight into our efforts. To make the disclosures, 
figures and data in this report transparent, understandable and easy to compare, we have followed the guide-
lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with reference to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  
of the United Nations. This report also represents our Communication on Progress under the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) and serves as our Nonfinancial Declaration under the CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungs-
gesetz (CSR-RUG – German CSR Directive Implementation Act). 
We look forward to receiving your suggestions and feedback.
M. Müller
“ Low-emission drive technologies; smart mobility 
services; innovative, safe solutions for autonomous 
driving – these are among the ambitious plans we are 
working on right now as we look ahead to the future.”
