VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
37
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble MANAGeMeNt stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt
Supplier  
Management
As a multinational corporation, we also bear a global responsibility. 
The localization strategies at our production sites are generating ever 
more globalized and complex supplier structures. We have more than 
40,000 tier 1 suppliers worldwide, who employ more than 5 million 
people. This is why our sustainability efforts do not stop at our factory 
gates. At 41 locations in 21 countries, our procurement network  
ensures that our production facilities are supplied with production  
materials of the requisite quality, in the required quantities, at 
competitive prices. The goods and services we purchase around the 
world to manufacture our products are worth a total of €173.6 billion 
(including our Chinese joint ventures). 
VOLUME OF GROUP PROCUREMENT BY MARKET
in %
North America 7
South America 2
Asia/Pacic 29
Europe/Other markets 62
SUSTAINABILITY IN SUPPLIER RELATIONS 
Only by cooperating closely with our business partners can we ensure 
compliance with our sustainability standards. With this in mind, we 
rolled out our Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept in 2006. 
To identify the latest developments and long-term challenges in each 
country, we rely on the dialog which takes place between our brands 
and regions through the Sustainability Procurement Network. This 
network supports the continuous exchange of information between 
more than 20 experts.
Our Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept is based on three key 
criteria: requirements, monitoring and development. In this respect, 
we define what we expect of our suppliers in terms of sustainability, 
and then turn these expectations into requirements. We use targeted 
monitoring instruments to ensure compliance, and organize training 
initiatives to steadily raise suppliers’ awareness of sustainability 
issues.
SUSTAINABILITY IN SUPPLIER RELATIONS CONCEPT
Contractually binding
?  Working and sharing information with the global procurement network
?  Involvement in cross-sectoral sustainability initiatives
?  Involvement in working groups on sustainability with other automotive manufacturers
?  Environmental protection
?  Employee rights
?  Transparent business relationships
?  Fair trading practices
?  Duty of care to build responsible 
    supply chains
?  E-learning programs for suppliers 
    and buyers
?  Classroom training courses for suppliers
    and buyers
?  Sustainability questionnaire
?  App for evaluating suppliers’ sustainability
?  Supplier audits
Veri?cation of compliance 
with requirements
Training and raising awareness 
of buyers and suppliers
REQUIREMENTS
FURTHER DEVELOPMENT
MONITORING TRAINING AND SKILLS
