VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
64
Products and Production  |  Production and Logistics
Production and 
Logistics
The “Ecologically Exemplary Production” initiative is firmly anchored 
in our production strategy, which is derived from our Group strategy. 
As part of this initiative, we will be working to achieve four key objec­
tives by 2025:
 § Setting and achieving ambitious environmental targets for 
 production
 § Developing a long­term vision for environmental targets in 
 production and rolling it out across the Group
 § Improving employees’ environmental awareness and incorporating 
relevant environmental aspects into Group processes
 § Achieving top positions in prestigious environmental rankings
 
With this in mind, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of 
reducing levels of the five key environmental indicators per vehicle 
manufactured – energy and water consumption, waste for disposal, 
CO? and VOC emissions – by 45% by 2025 (compared with the 2010 
baseline). This target applies to all the Group’s production sites and 
builds on the eco­friendly production process requirements defined 
in our Group Environmental Principles.
In addition to continuously reducing these five environmental indi­
cators, we are also actively pursuing other initiatives which aim to 
improve our material processing efficiency, recycling levels, environ­
mental protection in logistics, and nature conservation.  
 
MATERIAL INPUT AND RECYCLING
In our efforts to achieve sustainable production, the use of low­impact 
raw materials plays an important role in reducing our consumption of 
natural resources. 
To manufacture our vehicles, we need production materials com­
prised of renewable and non­renewable resources. Our efforts to 
conserve resources over the entire life cycle of our vehicles start at the 
earliest development stage. By taking this approach, we can continu­
ously reduce the environmental impacts of the materials we use by 
prioritizing renewable and secondary raw materials. 
This is why we focus on using renewable raw materials in vehicle pro­
duction: wherever possible, our Group brands use natural­fiber­based 
raw materials such as flax, cotton, wood, cellulose and hemp in floor 
insulation, trunk linings, door and side­panel trims, and hood insula­
tion. But even when using these renewable materials, we adhere to 
Further information on our brands’ “ecologically exemplary Production”  
initiative can be found at: 
– Volkswagen | think Blue. Factory  
– ŠKODA | greenFuture  
– Indien | think Blue. Factory  
– China | chP of saic VoLKsWagen
strict sustainability standards: in certain instances, negative envi­
ronmental impacts based on water, fertilizer, energy or land require­
ments, not to mention social factors such as competition with food 
crops, may militate against the use of renewable raw materials.
Lightweight body­shell production is a strategic development pri­
ority. In terms of functionality, quality, safety and environmental 
compatibility, we are either improving our existing products or de­
signing brand­new ones. We use hot­formed, high­strength steels in 
production models. While a lot of energy is required to manufacture 
these products, the lighter vehicle bodies make it possible to reduce 
CO? emissions and hence improve our products’ environmental im­
pact. We are also pursuing a composite materials approach for certain 
vehicles and platforms, using a range of different materials in one 
body shell. When developing new platforms, we also use lightweight 
materials such as aluminium. 
 
 
Another element in our sustainable use of materials is the introduc­
tion of closed­loop material cycles in our production processes. 
Instead of primary raw materials, we increasingly rely on recycled 
materials. These are obtained from production residues or end­of­
life materials – but must meet exactly the same quality standards as 
primary raw materials. 
Recycling enables us to further reduce our products’ environmental 
impact, while at the same time conserving resources. For example, 
even at the development stage of new vehicles, we pay attention to the 
recyclability of the required materials, the use of high­quality recycled 
materials and the avoidance of pollutants. This means that end­of­life 
vehicles can be 85% recycled and 95% recovered. 
Other measures that are steadily improving our vehicles’ environmen­
tal performance focus on, for example, extending the battery life of 
lithium­ion batteries and introducing closed­loop recycling of their 
materials.
The implementation of the Aluminium Closed Loop Project in 2017 
was the first time we had organized a closed loop for aluminium with 
non­Group suppliers. The project returned sheet aluminium scrap 
from our press shops directly to suppliers for subsequent reuse in 
vehicles.
To calculate the proportion of recycled materials in an entire vehicle, 
we identify the materials in all of the vehicle’s components, together 
with their recycled material content, and add them up. In order to do 
this, we depend on reliable information obtained directly from our 
suppliers, as well as data from industry­specific associations. 
Further information on our brands’ lightweight body shell construction  
can be found at: 
– Scania | Light truck 
