VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
78
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees
Strategic Objective: 
Skilled and Committed Employees
The second goal of our human resources strategy is to cultivate 
skilled and committed employees. For us, commitment means first 
and foremost actively helping to create value, but also taking change 
in one’s stride and personally initiating process improvements. It 
also means seeing the bigger picture and taking an interest in the 
environment and developments in society at large. We practice such 
corporate citizenship in numerous initiatives – for example in our 
support for volunteering activities, in the aid the Group provides to 
refugees, in the now traditional campaign where employees donate 
the odd cents on their monthly pay slips to “One Hour for the Future”, 
or the work of the Volkswagen Employees’ Foundation. Added to this 
are the  donations – €28.2 million in 2017 – which the Group makes 
directly to charitable causes. 
ON-THE-JOB COMMITMENT
We like to see our employees tackling their work enthusiastically, show-
ing commitment and team spirit while contributing their expertise. In 
return, we invest in our workforce, foster a good working atmosphere 
and offer attractive opportunities for career development. As well as 
listening to their opinions and constructive criticism, this includes 
actively involving our workforce in improving processes and assuring 
quality. 
One tool used for this purpose throughout the Group is our  Employee 
Opinion Survey. We use this standardized Group-wide survey to obtain 
regular feedback on employee satisfaction, and by  extension on 
the extent to which we have fulfilled our goal of being an attractive 
employer. The survey also helps to systematically identify scope 
for improvement and pinpoint the areas where managers need to 
take action within their organizational units. In 2016, we revised 
the  Employee Opinion Survey to include additional questions and 
new tools to help line managers discuss the results with  employees. 
The 2017 survey was conducted at 156 sites and companies in 
48  countries. Approximately 453,000 of over 570,000 employees in 
the participating Group companies responded; this is equivalent to a 
response rate of 79%. In 2017, the score on the employee satisfaction 
index – a key indicator generated by the opinion survey – was 78.3 out 
of 100 possible index points, and thus on a par with the previous year.
Our ideas management program is another important tool for 
 encouraging employee engagement. This program enables employees 
to bring their creativity, knowledge and initiative to bear and take 
responsibility for improving both processes and products. By 2017, 
over 54,000 ideas had been submitted, saving the company approxi-
mately €124 million at German sites operated by Volkswagen AG, 
Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH and Volkswagen Osnabrück GmbH. Ideas 
management is an important leadership and motivational tool for 
plant supervisors and managers. It also contributes to improving 
health and safety in the Volkswagen workplace and helps us reach our 
targets for reducing energy and water consumption, waste, solvents 
and CO2 emissions.
