VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
12
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  letteR to  ouR stAkeholDeRs
DEAR READERS, 
In real terms, what will mobility look like the day after tomorrow? How important will the car be as a 
means of transport? When will artificial intelligence finally replace the driver? None of these questions 
can be answered with absolute certainty today. Only one thing is certain. The scope of the change facing 
the Volkswagen Group, and indeed the entire automotive industry, is more wide-reaching than anything 
our industry has experienced in its 130-year history.
In truth, our Company faces a dual challenge. We have not yet surmounted the diesel crisis for which we 
ourselves are responsible; its consequences will continue to weigh on us for the foreseeable future. We have 
taken significant steps to strengthen our internal processes and control mechanisms, and to refocus on 
compliance and integrity – by revising our Code of Conduct, for example, and extending our whistleblower 
system. We continue to work on the renewal of our corporate culture, by flattening our hierarchies, giving 
our employees more personal responsibility and decentralizing our management, and by drawing up our 
Code of Cooperation as a platform for open collaboration in and between our Group companies. 
But all these initiatives, as well as the impressive commitment of our workforce to this process of change, 
must take a back seat when news of the misconduct and poor judgments that unfortunately took place 
within our Company once again becomes public. And it shows that both as a Company and as an industry, 
we must deal much more seriously and sensitively with ethical issues, and act even more decisively on 
sustainability issues. 
In our program for the future, TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, we clearly describe our way forward into a 
new world of mobility. Our plans build on Volkswagen’s qualities: our innovative strength, our technical 
expertise, the enormous commitment of our employees around the world. But we also set ourselves new 
priorities. For example, Roadmap E, published in September 2017, put flesh on the bones of our electrifi-
cation strategy. By 2025, our Group companies will make more than 80 new electric models available to 
our customers. By 2030, we will electrify our entire model portfolio. By doing so, we are convinced that 
the Volkswagen Group can make a significant contribution to boosting the e-mobility breakthrough. 
Living up to this self-imposed commitment will not only require a great deal of effort, but also a great deal 
of money. Over the next few years, we will be investing more than €34 billion in e-mobility, autonomous 
driving, digitalization and new mobility services. The lion’s share will be spent on electrification. This is 
how we will turn Volkswagen into a pioneer of zero-emission mobility. As far as our Group is concerned, 
the transport revolution and the energy revolution are inseparably intertwined. 
E-mobility is still in its infancy. And there are still many unresolved questions regarding the e-mobility 
value chain and product life cycle – from raw materials and energy production through to infrastructure 
and recycling. As the Volkswagen Group, we are helping to answer these questions, both by contributing 
our expertise and by assuming responsibility. 
Letter to  
Our Stakeholders
