Group Management Report > Report on Risks and opportunities  
> Risks from the Diesel issue
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
47
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  Risk MANAGeMeNt stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  Risk MANAGeMeNt
 § The first line of defense is formed by the operational risk manage-
ment and internal control systems of the individual Group divi-
sions and companies. The RMS/ICS is an integral part of our Group’s 
organizational structures and processes. 
 § The second line of defense is the Group Risk Management function, 
which sets standards for the RMS/ICS and coordinates the quarterly 
risk survey and annual governance, risk and compliance (GRC) con-
trol process. It reports to the Group Board of Management on any 
material risks, which are also defined in terms of quantitative and 
qualitative assessment criteria and given probability ratings.
 § The third line of defense is Group Internal Audit, which carries out 
regular checks on the structure and implementation of the RMS as 
part of its independent audit activities.
 
A detailed overview of our risk management and internal control sys-
tem can be found in our 2017 Annual Report, in the Group Manage-
ment Report’s Report on Risks and Opportunities. 
The diesel issue both causes intrinsic risks for the Volkswagen Group 
and has an impact on existing risks. 
Risks that could impact on our bottom line also include general envi-
ronmental risks and climate-change risks.
These include risks that could result from differing CO? and emissions 
regulations. Extreme weather situations, storms or floods can cause 
failures of information and communication technology, supplier fail-
ures resulting in production stoppages, or general production down-
time at one or more of our production facilities around the world. Our 
evaluation of the overall risk situation includes the potential impacts 
of natural disasters and resource shortages. Our risk assessment takes 
the form of a net analysis, i.e. taking account of any countermeasures 
initiated to minimize the risk.
Our Group risk management processes also take account of the risks 
associated with six nonfinancial aspects:
 § Environmental matters
 § Labor matters
 § Social matters
 § Customer matters
 § Respect for human rights
 § Combating corruption and graft
 
The Report on Risks and Opportunities in the Management Report 
provides an overview of the risks judged by the Volkswagen Group  
to be of material significance, including risks related to the six non-
financial aspects subject to mandatory reporting. It also includes risks 
arising from the diesel issue under the nonfinancial aspects of envi-
ronmental matters (see link below). Otherwise no other high-proba-
bility risks with potentially severe negative impacts on nonfinancial 
aspects were identified in fiscal year 2017.
“THREE LINES OF DEFENSE” APPROACH
SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE
(GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT)
ReportReportUrgency Report
FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE
(DIVISIONS)
THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE
(GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT)
Responsibility for RMS/ICS 
in organizational units
Parts of RMS/ICS covered in 
Group Internal Audit function’s 
audit reports or reports on 
specic RMS/ICS audits
Responsibility for RMS/ICS standards 
and risk management processes
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
RISKS
SUPERVISORY BOARD
Scoping
Data collection 
and assessment at 
unit level
Proof of e?ectiveness 
at unit level
Reporting
Follow-up activities to 
remedy weaknesses
3.
RMS/ICS 
components
1.
Target categories
2.
Organizational 
involvement
