VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
50
Products and Production  |  ManageMent aPProach –  Products and Production
Our Group has a long tradition of commitment to environmental 
protection. It is firmly embedded in our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 
as one of our four corporate objectives. As one of the world’s leading 
providers of sustainable mobility, we also want to become an Environ­
mental Role Model. We are working toward this long­term goal by 
taking responsibility for the environment – day in, day out. 
With this in mind, we have defined the following targets:
 § To continuously improve our carbon footprint
 § To continuously reduce our pollutant emissions
 § To continuously reduce our resource consumption
 
For us, effective environmental protection means complexity and 
consistency in equal measure. This is why we are focusing on the 
 development of environmentally friendly products by ensuring that 
our powertrain and fuel strategy is fundamentally sustainable. Road­
map E, which we adopted in 2017 as the centerpiece of our electrifi­
cation drive, will be supported by innovative solutions for modern 
combustion engines and alternative drive systems. Research into 
sustainable mobility solutions and digitized business models is the 
final element in our strategic realignment. 
We look at the entire life cycle from product development through 
production, from logistics – including the supply chain – through 
the use phase, right through to recycling (LifeCycle Thinking). At 
every stage, we take a holistic approach to analyzing environmentally 
relevant factors such as energy and CO? emissions, material manage­
ment and recycling concepts, water management, recycling solutions, 
pollutants and nature conservation, in order to meet our ambitious 
decarbonization, pollutant reduction and resource conservation 
targets. We ensure that our progress toward meeting these targets is 
visible by participating in ratings and rankings.
We have set ourselves the goal of becoming one of the world’s leading 
providers of sustainable mobility. Consequently, alongside traditional 
environmental management, we are making the quality assurance 
and safety of our products our top priority. This is the only way we 
can guarantee that our products meet the very highest standards of 
vehicle and transport safety.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND  
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The Group Board of Management is the highest internal decision­ 
making authority on environmental matters; it also functions as 
the Group’s Sustainability Board. The Group­wide management of 
 environmental protection is the responsibility of the Corporate 
 Environment and Energy Steering Committee, with the support of 
numerous specialist bodies.
The Corporate Environment and Energy Steering Committee coordi­
nates our brands and companies, and provides regular progress 
reports to the Board of Management.
All environmental protection activities in our Group are centered on 
our global principles. We continue to steadily expand and improve 
on these principles. The following principles are binding for all Group 
brands:
 § Group Environmental Policy 
 § Group Environmental Principles Locations/Production 
 § Group Environmental Principles Product 
 § Mission Statement on Biodiversity 
 
All responsible parties within the Group, working for our brands and 
at our locations, are required to comply with these environmental 
principles. The environmental policies and targets of our various 
brands are also derived from these principles. 
Environmental Officers from every part of the Group regularly meet 
at the Group Environmental Conference (G.E.C.), seeking to optimize 
our eco­friendly alignment along the entire value chain. 
Environmental protection is teamwork. This is why we involve em­
ployees across the whole Group in our efforts to jointly achieve the 
Group’s environmental goals. One of the building blocks we use for 
this purpose is the “Works Agreement on Environmental Protection”, 
which has been in place at Volkswagen AG factories (including the 
Technical Development department in Wolfsburg) since 1995 and was 
most recently updated in 2013. In support of the production process, 
the Volkswagen brand has appointed 318 ambassadors, including 
196 Environmental Ambassadors (SfU) and 122 Energy Experts (SfE). 
As at the end of 2017, 100 of our 120 production sites, as well as the 
Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand’s Technical Development depart­
ment, held a valid ISO 14001 or EMAS certificate. This equates to 99% 
of our workforce.
Management Approach –  
Products and Production
