VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
43
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  iNteGRity stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  iNteGRity
INTEGRITY PROGRAM
Our goal is to enhance the culture of integrity in the Group and create 
a collective awareness of integrity. To this end, in 2016 we launched 
an integrity program that includes all employees and is based on six 
action areas:
1.  Dialog & communication: We regularly distributed information on 
the concept of integrity and its importance, and on the develop-
ment of the integrity program. We also set up an integrity mailbox 
to facilitate direct communication between our employees and the 
integrity management function. In addition, we held a live chat on 
our internal social network to encourage discussion.
2.  Sounding Board program: This program aims to improve dialog 
between the integrity management function and the workforce. 
This aim is facilitated by our Integrity Ambassadors – voluntary 
supporters drawn from our management and staff. 
3.  Executive program: The special responsibility of members of man-
agement to serve as role models for integrity was emphasized in a 
letter signed by the entire Group Board of Management. 7,300 man-
agers, from group leaders to Board-level executives, participated in 
integrity training in the form of a mandatory web-based training 
course for all managers, as well as a mandatory four-day confer-
ence. We also provided managers with tools for communicating 
topics such as integrity, culture and compliance to the workforce. 
THE SIX ACTION AREAS OF THE INTEGRITY PROGRAM
Dialog & 
Communication
Sounding
Board
Program
Monitoring 
& Reporting
Internatio-
nalization
Executive 
Program
Processes 
& Tools
SOUNDING BOARD PROGRAM
Volunteer integrity ambassadors from all 
divisions and levels of the hierarchy. 
Looking at things from employees’ perspective. 
Active interface between specialist departments 
and integrity management function.
EXECUTIVE PROGRAM
Taking actions to hone managers’ 
ability to function as role models 
(trainings etc.).
PROCESSES & TOOLS
Embedding integrity in existing 
processes (e.g. personnel processes).
MONITORING & REPORTING
Measuring and communicating 
the e?ectiveness of activities initiated under 
the integrity program.
INTERNATIONALIZATION
Planning and executing the expansion 
of the integrity program to brands,
 companies, regions, and locations.
DIALOG & COMMUNICATION
Ongoing dialog on integrity made 
possible by focused involvement of 
employees.
Strengthening the culture of integrity
4.  Processes & tools: We continuously assess ways of integrating our 
principles of integrity into our key management functions, such 
as personnel processes. For instance, information on integrity is 
already a core element of our onboarding package for all newly 
hired employees, and in 2018, our web-based training course will 
become mandatory for all non-managerial employees. 
5.  Monitoring & reporting: Regular monitoring helps us to fine-
tune and readjust our integrity program and to underscore the 
relevance of integrity as a topic. This includes the evaluation of 
feedback received from our Integrity Ambassadors, employees and 
managers, as well as reports in internal media and external publi-
cations. We are currently developing strategic KPIs, in some cases 
in consultation with external specialists.
6.  Internationalization: Following the pilot phase at our Wolfsburg 
site, we are planning to expand the integrity program to include 
all brands, companies and regions. Employees responsible for gov-
ernance, risk management and compliance will play an important 
role in this process.
