VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
5
About this RepoRtAbout this RepoRt
ADDITIONAL REPORTING WITHIN THE GROUP
The nonfinancial report was drawn up in compliance with HGB 
section 315c in conjunction with sections 289c through 289e. By 
referencing this combined separate nonfinancial report, all Group 
companies required by national legislation to disclose nonfinancial 
and diversity-related information pursuant to Directive 2014/95/EU 
are exempted from the obligation to submit their own nonfinancial 
reports. 
More detailed insights into our environmental management approach 
can be found in the environmental statements published by numer-
ous Group locations as part of their voluntary participation in the 
European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). The sustain-
ability reports published by the Audi, MAN, Porsche, Scania and 
ŠKODA brands also bear testimony to the Group’s commitment to 
sustainability.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
A list of links is provided under “Supplementary Information”, so that 
readers can rapidly access documents covering the selected content in 
more detail. This list can be found online at: www.volkswagenag.com/
en/sustainability/policy.html. The latest, continuously updated news 
on sustainability in the Volkswagen Group can be found on the Group 
portal at:  www. volkswagenag.com/sustainability.
FRAME OF REFERENCE
The information in this report relates to the Volkswagen Group as a 
whole. Where information relates to individual Group brands only, 
this is clearly indicated in the text. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This sustainability report contains statements relating to the future 
business development of the Volkswagen Group. These statements 
are based on assumptions regarding the development of the eco-
nomic and legal conditions in individual countries and economic 
regions, in particular as they relate to the automotive industry, 
which we have made on the basis of the information available to us 
and which we consider to be realistic at the time of publication.  
The resulting estimates entail a degree of risk, and actual develop-
ments may differ from those predicted. Any changes in significant 
parameters relating to our key sales markets, or any significant 
shifts in exchange rates of relevance to the Volkswagen Group, will 
have a corresponding impact on the development of our business. 
In addition, there may be departures from our expected business 
development if the assessments of factors influencing sustainable 
value enhancement, and of risks and opportunities, presented in 
this sustainability report develop in a way other than we expect at 
the time of publication, or if additional risks and opportunities or 
other factors emerge that affect the development of our business.
CALCULATION OF FLEET EMISSIONS IN EUROPE
The figure for Group fleet CO? emissions is the figure annually record-
ed in the course of official monitoring pursuant to “Regulation (EC) 
443/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 
2009 setting emission performance standards for new passenger cars 
as part of the Community’s integrated approach to reduce CO? emis-
sions from light-duty vehicles” by the European Environment Agency 
(EEA) on behalf of the European Commission for the brands belong-
ing to the group of connected manufacturers “VW Group PC”. This 
figure is the volume-weighted average of all specific CO? emissions 
from new passenger cars registered for the first time in the respective 
calendar year, based on the calculation logic defined in EU Regula-
tion 443/2009. Provided that the figure for fleet CO? emissions is set 
down in a Commission Implementing Decision to confirm or amend 
the average specific CO? emissions and specific emissions targets for 
manufacturers of passenger cars for the respective calendar year in 
accordance with Regulation (EC) 443/2009 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council, this figure is published; otherwise, provisional CO? 
emission figures are published, which are evaluated on the basis of 
internal systems using the same logic.
NOTICE PURSUANT TO EU DIRECTIVE 1999/94 EC
Further information on the official fuel consumption and official  
specific CO? emissions of new passenger cars can be found in the 
“Guide on the Fuel Economy, CO? Emissions and Power Consumption of 
All New Passenger Car Models Offered for Sale on the German Market”, 
which can be obtained free of charge from all sales outlets of and directly 
from DAT Deutsche Automobil Treuhand GmbH, Hellmuth-Hirth-
Strasse 1, 73760 Ostfildern, Germany, or downloaded from: www.dat.de
