VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
56
Products and Production  |  PoWertrain and  FueL strategy
ROADMAP E
With Roadmap E as a core element of our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, 
we are launching the largest electrification drive in the automotive 
industry. By 2025, we want to become a world leader in e­mobility. 
To do so, we will make more than 80 new, electric models available 
for purchase to our customers around the world, including some 
50 all­electric vehicles and 30 plug­in hybrids. We are assuming that 
by 2025, one in every four new vehicles manufactured by our Group 
around the world will run on all­electric powertrains. Depending on 
how the market develops, this could be as many as 3 million electric 
vehicles per year. In subsequent years, this figure would then increase 
in leaps and bounds. 
By 2030, we intend to electrify our entire model range. By this deadline 
at the latest, there will be at least one electrically powered version of 
each of the 300 or so models manufactured by the Group, across all 
brands and markets. This makes us the first major mobility company 
to commit to a specific deadline for the full electrification of its fleet. 
Roadmap E anticipates that we shall make more than €20 billion 
available for direct investments in the industrialization of e­mobility 
by 2030 – including investment in vehicles based on newly developed 
electric platforms with ranges of up to 600 km (375 miles). 
Just to equip our own e­vehicle fleet, we will need a battery capacity 
in excess of 150 GWh per year by 2025. This corresponds to the annual 
battery cell manufacturing capacity of at least four “Gigafactories”. 
To make this possible, we have put one of the largest procurement 
volumes in the history of the industry out to tender: more than 
€50 billion.
Further information on e-mobility can be found in the  
sustainability sections of our brands:  
– Audi | e-tron   
– Porsche | ionity  
– Volkswagen | i.d. Family 
– Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles | e-crafter  
– MAN | etrucks 
 
At the moment, we are using lithium­ion cells for our all­electric and 
plug­in hybrid vehicles; we assemble these cells into battery systems. 
We are currently researching various types of batteries based on 
solid electrolytes, which have a higher energy density and also meet 
stricter safety standards. We are investigating ways of industrializing 
these technologies.
With the announcement of our accelerated electrification drive, we 
are simultaneously advocating an orderly systemic transition, with 
the modern combustion engine acting as an indispensable bridge to 
an emission­free future.
Conventional electricity
Conventional fuels
Carbon-neutral fuels
(liquid, gaseous)
Carbon-neutral electricity
Fuel cell
Battery power
Plug-in hybrid
Hybrid drive
Combustion engine
CARBON-
NEUTRAL
sustainable
mobility
POWERTRAIN AN FUEL STRATEGIE
