VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
89
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: FiRst-Rate hR oRganization PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  hUMan Rights
Human Rights
As globalization continues to advance, value creation is increasingly 
shifting toward individual sales markets. This trend effectively in-
creases our responsibility for our activities worldwide – including the 
safeguarding of human rights.
Consequently, as the fundamental bedrock underlying all our activities, 
we respect, protect and support all laws around the world that aim to 
protect universal human rights. We reject all forms of child, forced or 
compulsory labor, modern slavery and human trafficking. Naturally, 
this not only applies to our own activities within the Group, but also 
to our relationships with business partners and to their conduct.
Our production and sales exist within globally interlinked structures. 
Human rights risks lie primarily in our upstream value chain and 
in resource extraction industries. Nevertheless, we clearly recognize 
the fact that our company is not completely immune to these risks. 
The cornerstones of collaborative and harmonious labor relations at 
Volkswagen Group are a raft of charters and declarations agreed with 
our Group European Works Council and Global Group Works Council. 
They safeguard employment rights and human rights, such as the 
right to freedom of association, collective bargaining, equal pay, and 
the prohibition of discrimination in the workplace.
To safeguard universal human rights, we take our lead from various 
international, European and national agreements. These include:
 § the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
 § the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights,
 § the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  
by the International Labour Organization (ILO),
 § the European Convention on Human Rights, 
 § the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and
 § the German federal government’s National Action Plan for Business 
and Human Rights.
Furthermore, we have clearly set out our Group-wide policy on 
safe guarding universal human rights and what we expect of our 
 employees in this regard in our Code of Conduct. The issue of 
human rights is covered in the section on “Our responsibilities as 
a member of society”. 
Extensively revised in 2017, the Code of Conduct now applies to all 
employees at all levels across all our brands and companies. The parts 
pertaining to human rights were completely revised and substantially 
expanded. Our Corporate Guidelines also lay down further principles. 
 
 
 
PROCESSES FOR SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS
We aim to identify human rights risks at the earliest possible juncture 
and act to continually minimize them. We consider the Group’s 
impact on people along our entire value chain. For this reason, we are 
constantly working toward establishing human rights due diligence 
at all levels of our value chain.
Our Risk Management System (RMS) and Internal Control System (ICS) 
are described in Volkswagen AG’s Annual Report (in the Report on 
Risks and Opportunities). The application of these RMS/ICS systems 
across the Group enables the timely identification of risks, including 
the risk of human rights violations.
Other tools used for this purpose include country risk analyses, 
 business partner screenings, questionnaire-based monitoring, 
plus the installation of early warning systems and performance of 
 supplier audits where human rights violations are suspected. 
Volkswagen’s worldwide ombudsman system is our point of contact 
for reporting suspected internal or external cases of non-compliance 
with our sustainability requirements, including infringements of 
 human rights in the supply chain. This system can be used to confi-
dentially report any suspicions – in one of 11 different languages – to 
two independent lawyers appointed by the Group.
If employees, business partners or customers suspect that anyone in 
our employ is acting unlawfully, they can report this transparently 
via a number of whistleblower system channels. The main focus of 
our whistleblower system is on obtaining information about serious 
breaches as specified in our guidelines. Human rights violations are 
a typical example of issues where the criteria for a serious breach are 
the volkswagen group’s complete code of conduct can be found at: 
https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/ 
policy-intern/code_of_conduct_2017_vW_group_english.pdf
