VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
79
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees
IDEAS MANAGEMENT IN THE VOLKSWAGEN AG*
2017 2016
ideas suggested  54,899   60,793 
implemented ideas for  
improvement
 59,872   65,146 
awarded ideas for improvement  24,267   25,440
savings (€million)  124   142,8 
bonuses (€million)  22   23,8 
* incl. Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH and Volkswagen Osnabrück GmbH. 
 
 
SYSTEMATIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
As well as commitment, we place an equally strong emphasis on 
developing employees’ skills. Our education and training system is 
highly sophisticated, and we maintain close ties with public educa-
tional establishments such as vocational schools and universities all 
over the world. 
Well educated employees who regularly update their skills are vital to 
our company. We therefore regularly review the level of our employees’ 
skills and qualifications in order to identify any further education and 
training options that might be suitable for them. 
Further information on the volkswagen group’s awards  
can be found in the Ratings and indices section
LEVEL OF QUALIFICATION
in the Volkswagen Group (in %)
2017
2016
21.5
59.2
16.1
3.1
Higher education Vocational education and training
Secondary education Other 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
21.8
58.4
16.4
3.4
Our initiatives for enabling employees to acquire further qualifica-
tions are organized around occupational “families” (Berufsfamilien). 
Employees who require similar skills to perform their jobs and who 
possess the associated competencies are said to belong to an occu-
pational family. The general and technical competencies required 
for each specific activity are defined in skills profiles. Employees are 
offered a wide range of opportunities to gain further qualifications, 
allowing them to continually update their skills and deepen their 
knowledge throughout their working lives. In the process, they 
also learn from more experienced colleagues who act as experts and 
pass on their know-how in our occupational family academies.
DUAL MODEL OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION  
AND TRAINING
The dual model of vocational education and training, in which 
theory and practice are closely intertwined, builds the foundations 
for the advanced skills and excellent performance the Volkswagen 
Group demands. Occupations in Germany are always certified by the 
relevant Chamber of Commerce and Industry and follow generally 
applicable standards, as prescribed by the German Federal Institute 
for  Vocational Training, for instance. Outside Germany, we also apply 
these high German standards, but the content of training courses 
is then also aligned with the national standards and requirements 
in the country concerned. Here, too, the content of the training is 
very much geared to the skills required in the various occupational 
families.  Volkswagen has rolled out this dual model at many of its 
locations outside  Germany as well, and continues to promote the 
model as the core framework for acquiring skilled worker qualifica-
tions. When planning new plants, we factor in dual vocational training 
as standard from the outset. Accordingly, more than three-quarters 
of all trainees in the Group are now learning their trades through the 
dual system. 
As at the end of 2017, the Volkswagen Group had trained 19,207 young 
people in some 50 recognized occupations. We also  support the 
career development of new entrants once they have completed their 
apprenticeship. Particularly talented young skilled workers are sup-
ported through “talent groups”. These two-year  training and develop-
ment programs recruit the best 10% of apprentices from each year’s 
intake at Volkswagen AG and Volkswagen Sachsen GmbH in Zwickau. 
105 skilled workers joined the programs during the year under review, 
taking the total to 956 young men and women since talent groups 
were first launched in 2008. 
On completion of an apprenticeship, the “Wanderjahre” (year abroad) 
program offers young people the opportunity to spend twelve months 
working for a Group company abroad. During the reporting year, 
31 Volkswagen Group sites in 17 countries took part in this develop-
ment program. For the first time, a group of 12 such trainees were sent 
to Volkswagen (China) Investment Co. Ltd. in Beijing. In 2017, 67 par-
ticipants from Germany plus 16 from seven other countries began 
their year abroad within the Volkswagen Group in Germany. 
Further information on our brands’ training and apprenticeship programs  
can be found at: 
– Lamborghini and Ducati | dual education system italy (desi)  
– Porsche | education enables opportunities  
– Scania | transport academy in ghana  
– Brazil | volkswagen senai (region) 
– India | education as mechatronics (region)
