VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
27
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble Mobility stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble MANAGeMeNt
Sustainable 
Management
Our aim is to operate responsibly along the entire value chain. This 
means our corporate governance must be sustainable and transparent 
to its core. 
Largely in line with the recommendations of the German Corporate 
Governance Code, we practice Group-wide sustainability coordina-
tion, integrated compliance and risk management, the continued 
development of a culture of integrity, and responsible supply chain 
management. The forward-thinking handling of environmental is-
sues, responsibility toward our employees and social engagement by 
our brands and in the various regions provide the framework for our 
Group’s sustainability approach. The greatest challenge to effective 
sustainability management is our complexity, with our 12 brands, 
more than 640,000 employees and 120 production sites.
Voluntary undertakings and principles applied across the Group form 
the basis and backbone of our sustainability management. These 
include our Model of Sustainable Development, our stakeholder guide-
lines and our corporate guidelines.
The Model of Sustainable Development provides a benchmark for 
sustainable corporate policy with three key elements:
 § a lasting balance between economic, environmental and social 
systems and our efforts to achieve long-term equilibrium between 
divergent interests,
 § responsibility for our own actions at regional, national and global 
level, with
 § transparent communications and fair cooperation. 
COORDINATION OF SUSTAINABILITY
We have created a clear structure for coordinating our sustainability 
activities that includes internal and external sustainability committees.
Our internal sustainability coordination is based on the tight inte-
gration of our corporate and sustainability strategies. In 2017, in its 
function as our Sustainability Board, the Group Board of Management 
under the leadership of CEO Matthias Müller regularly worked on the 
strategic issues surrounding a holistic sustainability management 
approach.
The Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee regularly updates 
the Group Board of Management on issues of relevance to sustain-
ability. The steering committee includes top managers from corporate 
functions, as well as representatives of the Group Works Council and 
brands. Its tasks include defining strategic sustainability goals and 
position statements, identifying key action areas and approving the 
sustainability report. Management indicators are used to monitor the 
extent to which these sustainability goals are being met. The steering 
committee meets regularly under the leadership of the external affairs 
and sustainability function.
In turn, the steering committee is supported by the sustainability office. 
Its duties include coordinating all sustainability-related activities with-
in the Group and the brands. The office also handles the monitoring 
and coordination of sustainability ratings. Finally, it is responsible for 
drawing up the sustainability report and supporting the Sustainability 
Council and its workshops.
As part of the environmental and socio-political regulatory process, 
we also maintain an ongoing dialog with policymakers.
At divisional level, the CSR project team ensures that information on 
current projects is regularly shared between the various sustainability 
experts within the Group. In addition, other project teams work across 
business areas on topics such as reporting, stakeholder management 
and sustainability in supplier relations. These coordination and work-
ing structures have also been established across the brands and are 
subject to ongoing development. 
In our efforts to continuously improve our sustainability concept, we 
have set up two external committees to provide us with independent 
advice: the Sustainability Council and the Stakeholder Panel.
Appointed in 2016, the international Sustainability Council regularly 
consults with the Board of Management, senior managers and em-
ployee representatives. It is authorized to proactively propose topics 
and implement projects subject to prior agreement. Its first projects 
included an investigation of innovation and cultural change related 
to sustainable mobility, an international initiative related to crisis 
prevention as a consequence of climate change, and a scientific study 
on defining the future parameters of transportation and climate 
policy. More detailed information on the council’s members and 
activities can be found here: www.volkswagenag.com > Sustainability 
> Sustainability Council.
