VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
84
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: WoRk oRganization Fit FoR the FUtURe
FLEXIBLE WORKING TIME MODELS
Flexible working time plays a significant role in innovative work 
organization models. Volkswagen is constantly working to further 
enhance the ease with which our employees can combine work 
and family life and thus cater to the particular needs of new parents, 
single parents or employees who are also carers, for example. The 
high levels of uptake of benefits such as parental leave confirm the 
success of this policy.  
RETURNING FROM PARENTAL LEAVE 
at Volkswagen AG (2017)
775
Women
 3,577
Total
 2,802
Men
In September 2016, Volkswagen AG introduced a far-reaching com-
pany agreement governing mobile working, i.e. work away from 
the usual workplace. Such agreements are satisfying the wishes of 
many employees for more flexibility in choosing where and when 
they work. Other Group brands such as Audi and Porsche have 
 similar arrangements. 
Volkswagen AG offers exceptional flexibility in its undertaking to 
re-employ workers who take extended leave: for the past 20 years 
or so, employees have been able to take up to eight years’ leave of 
absence without having to give a reason. Regardless of whether this 
leave is used for a sabbatical, for parental leave or for career devel-
opment purposes, employees have a guaranteed right to re-employ-
ment on the same terms and conditions as before.
We also offer a wide range of options for taking a leave of absence to 
care for close family members. Employees are entitled to take up to 
10 working days of leave at short notice, for example to make arrange-
ments for the appropriate care of a relative who has been taken ill. 
They may also take up to six months part-time or full-time leave to 
care for a family member themselves. Another option offered is part-
time working for up to 24 months in order to meet care obligations.
We believe these options greatly contribute to the present and future 
attractiveness of work at Volkswagen, and consequently help ensure 
that the company remains competitive.
