VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
6
About this RepoRt  |  NoNfiNANciAl RepoRt (NfR)
Nonfinancial 
Report (NFR)
INDEX FOR THE NONFINANCIAL REPORT
The following index provides an overview of the disclosures required 
for the nonfinancial report in accordance with HGB section 315c in 
conjunction with sections 289c through 289e, together with appro-
priate references to the sections of this Group Sustainability Report 
in which these disclosures may be found. 
PwC has subjected the elements of the Group Sustainability Report 
that make up the nonfinancial report to a voluntary limited assur-
ance audit in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised).
All text passages, tables and graphics in the Group Sustainability 
Report that form part of the nonfinancial report are indicated by a 
gray background. 
References to disclosures outside the summarized management 
report are supplementary information and do not form part of the 
nonfinancial report.
Based on various global challenges, the Volkswagen Group has drawn 
up a list of 18 key action areas. This analysis was based on external 
studies, industry analyses and stakeholder surveys, as well as internal 
policies and guidelines from our different divisions. These action 
areas were largely defined on the basis of the findings of expert work-
shops held in the past that addressed topics relating to the economy, 
the environment and civil society.
In the course of evaluating the statutory reporting requirements, 
Volkswagen expanded its materiality analysis and revised the action 
areas in terms of the requirements of the CSR Directive Implemen-
tation Act (CSR-RUG). In line with CSR-RUG, this nonfinancial report 
will concentrate on those action areas that are necessary for an under - 
standing of the Volkswagen Group’s business development, overall 
performance and position, as well as the Volkswagen Group’s influ-
ence on nonfinancial aspects.
The Volkswagen Group’s action areas were evaluated in terms of  
their strategic importance for TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 and their 
stakeholder relevance. In addition, the implications of CSR-RUG for  
the disclosure of nonfinancial information were discussed with 
representatives of the brands and corporate functions in four work-
shops. Furthermore, the significance of what is known as the “impact 
outlook” for the evaluation of action areas for the Volkswagen Group 
was discussed in the Group CSR Meeting (GCM).
In the course of this process, Volkswagen identified a total of 11 
material aspects as defined in CSR-RUG. A detailed description of 
this materiality process can be found in the section on Strategy and 
Management on page 28.
