VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
34
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble MANAGeMeNt
In the 2017 reporting year, two examples of platforms for stakeholder 
communication were the Stakeholder Panel Dialog and the 2017  
Global Stakeholder Reputation Survey. 
We invite the members of our Stakeholder Panel to Stakeholder Dialog 
events at regular intervals. Stakeholder Panel Dialog events provide 
a format for coming together to openly and critically discuss current 
Group initiatives. In the 2017 reporting year, two of these events took 
place in our offices in Hanover (June) and Berlin (December). In each 
case, we discussed topics such as further steps in the implementation 
of our corporate strategy TOGETHER – Strategy 2025, the Volkswagen  
Group’s e-mobility initiatives, the ongoing development of our 
materiality analysis, and the scope and contents of our nonfinancial 
reporting with between 20 and 30 panel members. 
We also conducted our 2017 Global Stakeholder Reputation Survey in 
the reporting year, in collaboration with an opinion polling service 
provider. In Germany, the USA and China, a total of 300 opinion 
leaders representing research and academia, civil society, the media, 
government and financial markets were surveyed. The survey was 
designed by reference to our TOGETHER strategy and the Volkswagen 
Code of Values, as well as an analysis of material issues as required for 
our sustainability reporting. The results showed that along with prod-
uct perception, our stakeholders believe that corporate culture, values 
and integrity, as well as corporate governance, all play an important 
role in the building of trust. And in their view, this is precisely where 
further action is needed.
 
OVERVIEW OF THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP’S STAKEHOLDER DIALOG FORUMS
GRi 102-43, 102-44
Stakeholder round tables Stakeholder workshops Stakeholder Panel Dialog events Stakeholder surveys Partnerships with universities
small groups 
(4–6 stakeholders)
Medium groups 
(10–15 stakeholders)
large groups (30 stakeholders) large representative samples Visiting professors and lecturers
several times per year  
(e.g. in berlin)
internal and external speakers twice a year 
(hanover and berlin)
2017 Global Reputation survey 
(500 stakeholders)
several times per year  
(e.g. in osnabruck)
Discussions with senior  
management and Group  
sustainability council
Discussions with senior and 
middle management
internal and external speakers 2017 Group Materiality survey 
(30 stakeholders) 
sponsorship of events
Discussions with senior and 
middle management
