VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
45
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  coMpliANce stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  coMpliANce
Experienced lawyers and defense attorneys work in the whistleblow-
er system. They follow up the tip-offs, taking both incriminating 
and exonerating factors into account. A full investigation is only 
launched after very careful examination of each report, and only if 
there is concrete evidence of a serious breach of the rules. The per-
sons implicated are presumed innocent until proof of misconduct 
has been established. They are treated fairly, allowed to respond as 
soon as possible, informed of the outcome of the investigation, and 
vindicated if they have been wrongly accused. The process provides 
comprehensive protections both for the whistleblower and for the 
person accused.
Detailed information on the Volkswagen Group’s whistleblower system can be 
found in the Group Management Report in our Annual Report 2017.  
PREVENTION THROUGH INFORMATION
To raise awareness of the importance of compliance, all new employ-
ment contracts between Volkswagen AG and management staff on 
the one hand, and employees covered by collective agreements on the 
other, include references to the Code of Conduct plus the obligation to 
comply with it. As part of the hiring process, all new employees receive 
a copy of the Code of Conduct, and participation in training courses on 
the Code of Conduct is mandatory for all employees under permanent 
contract to Volkswagen AG.
We are aware that the risk of individual misconduct can never be com-
pletely eliminated. To raise employee awareness of compliance-relat-
ed issues, we use both traditional communication channels such as 
employee newsletters, magazines and information stands (at works 
meetings, for example), and also electronic media such as intranet 
portals and Group Connect. 
In 2017, around 219,549 employees throughout the Group were given 
various forms of compliance training. Mandatory compliance training 
courses are held for specific target groups, following a risk-based 
approach. In addition to traditional lectures and online e-learning 
programs, case studies, role-play and other interactive formats are also 
used in employee and management training courses.
Employees are able to obtain advice on compliance issues by writing 
to dedicated e-mail addresses. Advice provided to employees of the 
Volkswagen brand focused in particular on the Code of Conduct and 
corruption prevention. Employees of Volkswagen AG are able to obtain 
personal advice about compliance issues by contacting the compliance 
organization via a dedicated e-mail address. 
The Volkswagen Integrity, Culture and Compliance Convention also 
took place in the reporting year. A total of more than 7,300 executives, 
managers and Works Council members from Volkswagen AG, Volkswa-
gen Sachsen and Volkswagen Osnabrück attended the event. 
The aim of the convention was to continue driving forward the change 
process at Volkswagen. Executives from different levels of the man-
agement hierarchy explored topics such as integrity, cultural change 
and compliance in their everyday work, as well as their responsibility 
to lead by example. Participants prepared for the event by using an 
e-learning program to familiarize themselves with the issues.
