VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
85
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: WoRk oRganization Fit FoR the FUtURe PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: exeMPlaRy leadeRshiP and coRPoRate cUltURe
Strategic Objective: 
Exemplary Leadership and Corporate Culture
As part of the Group’s TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 program, we 
began a process of radical transformation from the ground up. This 
includes ideas and initiatives for revitalizing our corporate culture. 
For instance, back in 2016 we formulated new Group-wide manage-
ment principles and reviewed the criteria for appointments to 
management positions. In 2017, we worked on implementing this 
new model throughout the Group. Another important new policy 
introduced in 2016 was the Code of Cooperation, which establishes 
a clearly defined set of values for all interactions within the Group. 
As the code defines the ground rules for trust-based collaboration 
within the Group, it also constitutes a key pillar of our strategy. Us-
ing terms such as “trust”, “genuine”, “straightforward”, “open-minded”, 
“as equals” and “united”, it describes how  employees should cooperate 
within our brand network.
Following the definition of the new corporate culture through 
wide-ranging participative processes the year before, 2017 saw the 
rollout of this new culture. Company executives are important role 
models during cultural transformation. Accordingly, in 2017 around 
7,300 executives, managers and works council representatives from 
Volkswagen AG, Volkswagen Sachsen and Volkswagen Osnabrück 
took part in the Volkswagen Integrity, Culture and Compliance Con-
vention, spread over 14 days. They discussed the importance of the 
issues for the company and for themselves. In particular, discussions 
centered on how executives can set an example by showing integ-
rity and communicating corporate culture and compliance in their 
everyday working lives. An e-learning program on these three aspects 
enabled participants to prepare the topics in advance.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AS LEVERS OF CHANGE
As part of our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals, we champion diversity and equal opportunities 
at all our locations around the world. Our position is crystal clear: 
 Volkswagen stands for respect, tolerance and cultural openness. We 
guarantee equal opportunities and equal treatment irrespective 
of ethnicity, race, gender, disability, ideology, faith, nationality, sexual 
orientation, social background or political conviction, provided the 
latter is based on democratic principles and tolerance toward those 
who hold different views. The Volkswagen Group Code of Conduct, 
which was jointly agreed with our social partners in the Social Charter 
in 2002, underpins these aspirations throughout the Group.  Under 
the code, every employee and member of an executive board is 
responsible for ensuring that colleagues work together in partner-
ship and is obliged to report any breaches immediately.
If any employee feels they are a victim of discrimination, they may 
contact trained Group experts for advice and support. At the initiative 
of the Works Council, employees’ obligations and rights to non- 
discrimination were laid down in 1996 in the “Cooperative Conduct 
at the Workplace” company agreement applicable to all Volkswagen 
AG employees at all its sites. The agreement also covers bullying and 
other forms of discrimination. Every new employee receives a copy 
of it when they join the company and the contents are also covered 
in management training courses. In the event of any breaches, 
 employees can also reference the agreement when submitting a 
complaint. All complaints must be investigated; if they are found to 
be substantiated, appropriate action must be taken immediately. 
Further information on diversity at our brands can be found at: 
– Scania | skill capture
