VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
80
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: skilled and coMMitted eMPloyees
APPRENTICES
in the Volkswagen Group in Germany (in %)
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
4.7
4.8
4.8
4.6
4.6
0 1 2 3 4 5
 
EXTENSIVE TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES AT ALL LEVELS
At the Volkswagen Group Academy, skilled workers can choose from 
a broad range of advanced training courses – from further training 
in occupational or cross-disciplinary areas of general interest to the 
company, to specific qualifications in occupational families, through 
to comprehensive personal development programs. In this way, all our 
employees are able to pursue lifelong learning. This further training 
is also largely based on the dual-study model, which combines theory 
with practical experience. Overall, around 93,000 qualification activi-
ties totaling 13.9 million hours of training were completed across the 
Group in 2017. Over 435 courses and programs were newly developed 
for the Volkswagen brand alone.
We have standardized many of the development programs and selec-
tion procedures for executives, managers and group leaders across 
the Group. During the reporting year, the Volkswagen Group Academy 
ran some 524 training programs and assessment centers for execu-
tives, managers and group leaders in 12 countries.
ACADEMIC SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
As part of the Volkswagen Group Academy, AutoUni employs top 
in-house experts and collaborates with higher-education institutions 
to equip the company with leading-edge knowledge for the future. 
Its programs and collaborative study modules use a blended-learning 
format which combines face-to-face classroom teaching with online 
content, supplemented by lectures and conferences. In 2017, around 
9,450 people took part in over 170 AutoUni events all over the world; 
a growing number were transmitted to the Group’s various locations 
via Skype.
AutoUni cooperates with internationally renowned universities, 
 institutes and research centers on numerous research projects, disser-
tations and theses, and offers PhD students in the Group a platform 
for exchanging ideas and gaining interdisciplinary qualifications. 
As at the end of 2017, around 360 PhD students were engaged in 
researching topics of future interest to Volkswagen’s various Group 
companies in Germany. 
In addition, AutoUni facilitates networking between the Group’s 
in-house contacts for higher-education institutions and keeps track 
of collaborative links with universities around the globe: during the 
year under review, over 1,700 national and international cooperation 
agreements were in place with universities, research institutes and 
universities of applied sciences.
All these measures are aimed at maintaining and enhancing the 
high standard of skills and the outstanding expertise of Volkswagen 
employees at Group locations all over the world. Above all, we are 
committed to delivering teaching and learning in our  occupational 
families by following the dual vocational training model, which 
integrates theory and practice in a mutually reinforcing continuum. 
Systematic knowledge transfer by in-house experts at all levels and 
across all brands and specialist fields is another key factor under-
pinning our success.
 
 
 
 
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTHCARE 
Our efforts to ensure that our employees have well-developed skills 
and a high level of commitment address the first two facets of our 
strategic objective to cultivate “skilled and committed employees”. 
However, alongside a willingness to perform (through participation) 
and empowerment to perform (through having the right qualifica-
tions), there is a third facet, namely capability. This requires our work-
force to be physically and mentally capable of coping with the stresses 
and strains of work. 
Consequently, we do not simply regard the protection and promotion 
of our employees’ health as a self-evident societal obligation and 
reflection of our corporate culture, but also as an integral part of our 
human resources strategy. Volkswagen’s holistic approach to health 
management goes well beyond statutory preventive healthcare and 
occupational safety; it also includes aspects such as work organiza-
tion, ergonomics, prevention, integration and rehabilitation, along 
with leadership culture.
As well as complying with Group guidelines on protecting and pro-
moting health, the medical and healthcare services we provide for our 
employees are in line with the relevant statutory requirements and 
internal regulations at each site. Among other things, we maintain 
a register of jobs that may pose particular problems (list of occupa-
tional diseases) and offer employees in these jobs special prevention 
programs plus increased opportunities for workplace job rotation. 
All sites have at least emergency health provision, while most also 
offer medical services under the oversight of a physician.
Further information on our brands’ partnerships with institutions of higher 
education can be found at: 
– Bentley | crewe engineering & design Unversity technical college (Utc) 
– Lamborghini und Ducati | Motorvehicle Unversity of emilia-Romagna (MUneR) 
– Argentina | Ferdinand Porsche institut (region) 
– Brazil | Paraná (region)
the percentage of trainees in the group’s total workforce in  germany 
has remained at around 5% for many years. collective bargaining agree-
ments ensure that the number of trainees remains fairly constant, 
even during economically challenging times.
