VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
25
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  custoMeR sAtisfActioN AND custoMeR loyAlty  stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble Mobility
It is our task to ensure responsible and efficient production, and to 
make mobility not only as safe, convenient and environmentally com-
patible as possible, but also affordable for large numbers of people. 
We have firmly established e-mobility as a key action area in our 
TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 program for the future – while at the same 
time setting out our goal of becoming one of the world’s leading 
providers of e-mobility by 2025. Coupled with e-mobility and auto-
nomous driving, digitalization will transform our business – with 
implications of which many people are not yet aware. 
As we work to develop pioneering mobility solutions, we do not limit 
our focus to automotive mobility, but also consider other modes of 
transportation, as well as issues such as urbanization, urban develop-
ment, traffic-related services and the quality of transport infrastructure. 
We also take account of trending demands, such as vehicle-sharing. For 
these reasons, we have embedded new mobility solutions and digital 
services as core elements in our TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 program. 
By 2025, we intend to generate a proportion of our revenues from 
mobility solutions. With the Volkswagen Group’s new company for 
mobility services, MOIA, we are laying the foundations of lasting suc-
cess in tomorrow’s world of mobility – across the Group, and across 
all our brands. MOIA develops and markets its own mobility services, 
either independently or in partnership with cities and existing trans-
port systems. In parallel with MOIA, the brands continue to move 
forward with their own specific services. 
We are working on other innovative mobility concepts as part of 
the #WolfsburgDigital initiative. We recently made our on-demand 
X-Shuttle service available to our employees. Five modified Volkswagen 
Crafters transport commuters between our Braunschweig and Wolfs-
burg sites – they even provide a traveling concierge service. Group em-
ployees can use a smartphone app to specify their pickup location and 
destination and book the shuttle digitally. An algorithm combines the 
commuters’ requests, figures out optimal routes, and calculates travel 
and arrival times for each passenger. And the X-Shuttle service offers 
additional benefits – parcel and laundry services, snacks and drinks, 
free Wi-Fi and smartphone charging ports. X-Shuttle is more than just 
a ridesharing service; it is a pilot for future concepts in urban mobility 
and conceivably the future of carpooling. 
In the future, autonomous vehicles will enrich many people’s 
mobility experience. A mobility concept based on heavily used 
autonomous vehicles will take up less space, consume less energy, 
and be significantly safer and more sustainable. With SEDRIC (for 
SElf-DRIving Car), not only have we created precisely such an innova-
tive, integrated mobility concept for the urban traffic of the future, 
we have also developed a totally new kind of concept car. SEDRIC is 
a cross-brand ideas platform for our Group. It features an intuitive 
control system that gives an entirely new meaning to the idea of 
autonomous driving. The touch of a button, a verbal command or a 
smartphone app is enough to summon the self-driving automobile, 
which then delivers its passengers conveniently, reliably and safely to 
their destinations.
further information on the X-shuttle can be found at: 
https://www.volkswagenag.com/en/news/stories/2017/06/ 
the-car-pool-of-the-future.html
Sustainable Mobility
MOIA
Just one year after its inception, MOIA has introduced an in-
tegrated ride-pooling concept with a mission: “One Million 
Cars off the Road”. Starting in 2018, the initiative will provide 
new mobility options aimed at significantly reducing traffic 
in cities. We will launch this mobility service in 2018, initially 
in Hamburg.
MOIA has been testing the service in Hanover since October 
2017 and is continuously developing the various components 
based on real-world operation. A fleet of 20 Volkswagen  
Multivans is currently being used for the tests. 
Thanks to the MOIA ridesharing vehicle we introduced in 
December 2017, we can now cover the entire ride-pooling 
value chain – or just individual links in the chain, as required.
 
further information on MoiA can be found at:  
https://www.moia.io
