VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
39
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt
SUPPLIER MONITORING  
In the course of the business process, our business partners are re-
quired to complete our sustainability questionnaire and to document 
their activities relating to specified areas of responsibility. The ques-
tionnaire covers the areas defined in our sustainability requirements. 
We are transferring our sustainability questionnaire over to the 
self-assessment questionnaire developed for use throughout the in-
dustry in a joint project with other automotive corporations involved 
in the DRIVE Sustainability Working Group organized by CSR Europe. 
By the end of the reporting year, over 25,000 of our suppliers had com-
pleted a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire and submitted 
it to us. This covers around 89% of our total procurement volume. We 
use the responses to these self-assessments to help identify ways to 
enhance sustainability performance, and then communicate the latter 
to our suppliers. In the last fiscal year, by taking appropriate measures 
to enhance suppliers’ sustainability performance, we were able to im-
prove the sustainability performance of more than 1,500 suppliers.
STATUS OF SUSTAINABILITY QUESTIONNAIRE
Total in 
2012–2017 
cumulated
Status 2017, 
based on 
procurement 
expenditure
Procurement 
expenditure- 
based target 
for 2017
Procurement 
expenditure- 
based target 
for 2018
sustainability 
Questionnaire 
(self-assessment)  25,046 89% 93% 93%
As one of our environmental requirements, we require our tier 1  
suppliers to put in place a certified environmental management  
system that complies with ISO 14001 and/or EMAS. To date, 88% of  
our tier 1 suppliers have documented such a system. In accordance 
with the EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental certification and audit-
ing procedures at our sites, contractors and suppliers who work on  
site and have an environmental impact are also subject to regular  
audits. In addition, we encourage our suppliers to put in place a  
certified occupational health and safety management system that 
complies with OHSAS 18001, SA8000 and/or AA1000. 
Where selected business partners are identified by self-assessments or 
our internal analysis system as being at increased risk of non-compli-
ance with sustainability requirements, they are – for example – audited 
by an external specialist on site. These audits cover all our sustain-
ability assessment criteria, as well as interviews with employees of the 
selected suppliers; 321 suppliers were audited in the current fiscal year.
If there is reason to suspect that tier 1 suppliers or their subcontractors 
are failing to comply with our sustainability requirements, we ask the 
party concerned for a written statement using a standardized report 
(6D Report). Based on the six points we specify in the report, our busi-
ness partners can describe the situation and any remedial measures. If 
the answers prove unsatisfactory, we take further steps, such as exam-
ining documentation or visiting the supplier’s premises. 
What we refer to as “ad-hoc cases” represent a significant proportion 
of our supplier assessment activity. These refer to the sudden dis-
covery of instances where a supplier is suspected of non-compliance 
with our sustainability requirements. This may happen, for example, 
during an on-site audit.
Where such an ad-hoc or suspected case of non-compliance occurs, 
the ad-hoc expert team from the relevant brand or region coordinates 
the implementation of a series of remedial measures, as appropriate. 
In such cases, the team receives support from the corporate ad-hoc 
expert team in Wolfsburg.
In 2017, for example, we worked with selected suppliers to identify 
challenges involved in complying with sustainability requirements 
related to their management of subcontractors. Due to the complexity 
of the supply chains involved, we will continue to work on these issues 
with our suppliers in 2018.
Apart from sustainability issues, last year, for example, we identified 
non-conformances in the management of occupational health and 
safety during a third-party audit. Together with the supplier and the 
local ad-hoc expert team, we developed a plan of action. As part of 
implementing the action plan, the supplier’s plant was inspected and 
the supplier was given practical help by the ad-hoc team. All remedial 
measures were completed by the end of 2017.
