VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
77
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: excellent eMPloyeR PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: excellent eMPloyeR
REMUNERATION, REWARDING PERFORMANCE,  
PROFIT-SHARING AND RETIREMENT PROVISION
A reasonable income is the most important prerequisite for living 
an independent life. As stated in our worldwide Social Charter, all 
remuneration and benefits paid to our employees correspond at the 
very least to the statutory minimums in each country concerned. 
Furthermore, this not only applies to our own workforce, but to all 
our suppliers’ employees as well. As they are collectively agreed with 
trade unions, our rates of pay are usually considerably higher than 
the prevailing minimum levels. When setting pay, we make no gender 
 distinctions: people are recruited, hired and promoted solely on the 
basis of their qualifications and skills. Remuneration is based strictly 
on the job performed and individual performance. This is usually 
calculated according to a three-tier remuneration system comprising 
basic pay plus a performance-related component that additionally 
rewards each individual’s performance. The third component is an 
entitlement to a share in the profits as laid down in the collective 
agreement. This three-tier pay structure has proved to be a convenient 
way of enabling employees to share in the company’s success. 
Employees of Group companies also enjoy further benefits. De-
pending on location, these may include subsidized transport and 
meals, low-cost accommodation, monthly childcare allowances 
and discounts on certain leisure activities. Additional healthcare or 
supplementary pension benefits round off the range of company 
benefits offered.
Along with an attractive remuneration package for our active employ-
ees, we are also concerned to make provision for those embarking on 
the next stage of their life. By offering occupational pension schemes, 
Volkswagen AG, its brands and subsidiaries make an important 
contribution to ensuring that retirees still have an income in later life. 
In addition to employer contributions, employees can convert part of 
their pre-tax salary into pension contributions. 
The extensive social rights enjoyed by employees, strong workforce 
representation, participation in decision-making processes, perfor-
mance-related remuneration and good retirement provision form 
the building blocks of our attractiveness as an employer and together 
constitute the bedrock of our human resources policy. These aspects 
are further augmented by numerous initiatives, agreements and pro-
grams which aim to develop our workforce and create versatile, highly 
qualified teams.
