VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
91
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  hUMan Rights PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  social ResPonsibility
Social 
Responsibility
We aim to be an attractive employer for our workforce and a good 
partner for society. Reliability, trustworthiness and fairness are 
our watchwords – no matter whether we are talking to individual 
 employees, negotiating with collective representative bodies, collab-
orating with regional partners in local infrastructure development 
projects, or cooperating with civil society initiatives and associations.
Our “Empower to transform” human resources strategy seeks to 
 ensure that the Group, our brands and our workforce are well placed 
to adapt to the ever more rapidly evolving challenges of the networked 
digital world. Our human resources strategy is designed to help the 
Volkswagen Group become a global leader in sustainable mobility on 
an enduringly profitable basis. 
Nor does our responsibility to people stop at our factory gates – as a 
good “corporate citizen”, we see ourselves as a driver of local growth, 
contributing to structural development and equal opportunities 
wherever we operate. As part of our strategic approach, we are con-
stantly looking to expand our support for social, cultural and commu-
nity projects that are building a better future.  
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 
We have always believed in the importance of recognizing our social 
responsibilities toward our stakeholders. As a multinational enter-
prise, we bear a global responsibility that extends beyond our factory 
gates. The main focus of our corporate social engagement activities 
is on supporting local development, educational and  community 
 projects at many of our sites. Actively responding to societal  challenges 
such as the current refugee situation represents one of the core 
 imperatives of our corporate social responsibility.
We consider it important to take a strategic approach to social engage-
ment, so we select and develop our projects with great care – both 
independently and in collaboration with local partner organizations 
and NGOs. Local on-site project management allows us to react 
 flexibly to our stakeholders’ needs or anxieties. 
We are also seeking to obtain a more complete picture of the effective-
ness of our projects. Building on the London Benchmarking Group’s 
input-output-impact (IOI) model for measuring the effectiveness of 
community engagement initiatives, we have analyzed selected pro-
jects to find out who they benefit. As part of this process, we have also 
aggregated our inputs across the Group and recorded the different 
objectives in detail. This extensive pool of data provides us with an 
overview of the contexts, objectives and impacts of our involvement 
in environmental and community projects. 
Based on this information, we will revise our corporate  citizenship 
strategy in 2018 and define new areas of focus in line with  TOGETHER – 
Strategy 2025. Following a review of our corporate citizenship con-
cepts, we will define appropriate objectives and specific performance 
indicators, along with methods for measuring the effectiveness of 
these strategic initiatives.
In our corporate citizenship endeavors, we have always been guided 
by two principles: continuity and participation.
Over the reporting year, we were extensively involved in some 
250 projects around the globe aiming to improve economic and 
social structures. We also provided emergency assistance on an 
 ad-hoc basis, following natural disasters such as, for example, the 
severe flooding in South Asia and the USA.
Project selection and implementation are guided by our Group-wide 
policies, which provide the decision-making framework for all our 
community activities:
 § The projects align with our corporate mission while addressing a 
global challenge or a specific local issue.
 § They are an expression of the diversity within the Group and the 
socio-cultural environment in which the projects are carried out. 
 § They are developed in close consultation with local stakeholders, 
who are also involved in their implementation.
 § Projects are managed locally under the responsibility of the units 
operating there.
 
By taking into account both local and wider priorities, we are able to 
meet the diverse expectations of our stakeholders. In 2017, the Group 
and all our brands and regions were involved in around 250 projects 
that encompassed development, infrastructure and educational 
initiatives, as well as community projects. Due to the various different 
local circumstances and challenges involved, the projects took on 
numerous different forms. 
Further informationen regarding our brands’ social responsibility  
can be found at: 
MAN | Man impact accelerator 
