VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
21
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  toGetheR – stRAteGy 2025 stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  toGetheR – stRAteGy 2025
Becoming one of the world’s leading providers of sustainable  mobility 
calls for substantial capital expenditure. This investment is to be 
funded primarily through efficiency gains along the entire value chain – 
from product development and sourcing through to production and 
distribution, as well as in our corporate support functions. We can 
also generate additional resources for future investments by optimiz-
ing our existing portfolio of brands and equity investments. Bringing 
us to the fourth building block of our Group strategy, which involves 
securely financing the Volkswagen Group and placing it on a solid 
footing. 
 
further information on sustainable Mobility in the Volkswagen Group  
can be found in our together.net magazine at:  
http://together.volkswagenag.com
GROUP STRATEGY GOALS AND KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS  
Our strategic initiatives describe how we intend to achieve our vision 
of becoming a world-leading provider of sustainable mobility. For this 
purpose, we have defined four target dimensions – thrilled customers;  
excellent employer; role model for the environment, safety and in-
tegrity; and competitive profitability – which are intended to help us 
grow sustainably.
These target dimensions apply across the Group. However, the strategic 
KPIs which we will use to measure our future progress in implement-
ing our Group strategy will differ according to business model. This is 
because our car-manufacturing brands have a different business model 
from our truck and bus brands, which in turn differs from the business 
models of our Power Engineering and service businesses.
Below we describe the Group strategic goals which have been assigned to 
each of the target dimensions.
The definitions of the strategic KPIs for the target dimension of com-
petitive profitability have been standardized and established across 
the Group. In some cases, however, the substance of the strategic KPIs 
for the other target dimensions is still being defined as we continue 
to flesh out our Group strategy.
TARGET DIMENSION: THRILLED CUSTOMERS
This target dimension focuses on the diverse needs of our customers  
and on tailor-made mobility solutions. We aspire to exceed our 
customers’ expectations and generate maximum customer benefit. 
This calls not only for the best products, the most efficient solutions 
and the best service, but also for flawless quality and an outstanding 
corporate image. We want to thrill our existing customers, win over 
new ones and retain their loyalty in the long term – because only loyal 
and faithful customers will recommend us to others.
Our strategic KPIs include the Net Promoter Score, conquest rate and 
key indicators for loyalty, customer satisfaction and retention.
 16 GROUP-WIDE INITIATIVES
 
SECURE FUNDING
STRENGTHEN 
INNOVATION POWER
BUILD 
MOBILITY SOLUTIONS 
BUSINESS
TRANSFORM 
CORE BUSINESS  
Drive digital transformation Create organisation 4.0 
Improve operational 
excellence
Optimize business
portfolio
Integrate strategy and
planning process
Establish
mobility solutions
business
Develop and expand
attractive and protable
smart mobility o?ering
Sharpen positioning of brands
Develop successful vehicle and drivetrain portfolio
Partner with regional players to win in economy segment
Streamline modular architectures 
Implement model line organization
Realign components business
Develop battery technology as new core competency
Develop self-driving system for autonomous vehicles and articial intelligence
Develop best-in-class user experience across brands and customer touchpoints
