VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
122
Appendix  |  independenT pRACTiTiOneRS RepORT
TO VOLKSWAGEN AG, WOLFSBURG
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the combined 
separate non-financial report pursuant to §§ (Articles) 289b Abs. 
(paragraph) 3 and 315b Abs. 3 HGB] (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German 
Commercial Code”) of Volkswagen AG, Wolfsburg, (hereinafter the 
“Company”) for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 
which comprises the sections marked with a grey background in the 
Group Sustainability Report 2017 of the Company (hereinafter the 
“Non-financial Report”). 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the 
preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with §§ 315b 
and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the principles 
stated in the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (hereinafter the “GRI-Criteria”).
This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes the 
selection and application of appropriate methods of non-financial 
reporting as well as making assumptions and estimates related to 
individual non-financial disclosures which are reasonable in the 
circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible 
for such internal control as they have considered necessary to enable 
the preparation of a Non-financial Report that is free from material 
misstatement whether due to fraud or error.
INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL  
OF THE AUDIT FIRM
We have complied with the German professional provisions re-
garding independence as well as other ethical requirements.
Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and pro-
fessional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German 
Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für 
Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well  
as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published by the Institut der  
Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW):  
Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssiche-
rungs standard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der 
¹  PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German 
version of the separate non-financial report and issued an independent assurance report in 
German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent 
assurance report.
Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains 
a comprehensive system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
PRACTITIONER´S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the 
Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement we have 
performed. 
Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on 
external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the 
Non-financial Report.
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 
(Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard 
requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to allow 
us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial 
Report for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has 
not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b 
and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB and the relevant GRI-
Criteria. 
In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures are  
less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and 
therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. 
The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s 
judgment. 
Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we performed 
amongst others the following assurance procedures and further 
activities:
 §  Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability 
organization, of the stakeholder engagement and of the 
conduction of the materiality analysis
 §  Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Non-
financial Report regarding the preparation process, the internal 
control system relating to this process and selected disclosures  
in the Non-financial Report
Independent Practitioner’s Report  
on a Limited Assurance Engagement on  
Non-financial Reporting¹ 
