VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
32
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  sustAiNAble MANAGeMeNt
In the 2017 reporting year, our stakeholders took advantage of surveys 
and dialog events to communicate numerous expectations to the 
Volkswagen Group:
We have a strategic stakeholder management system in place to help 
us organize our many different stakeholders and their needs, and 
ensure they are included in our business decisions. To successfully 
facilitate a dialog of equals, our stakeholder management system 
must meet the following criteria:
 § Systematically recording the expectations placed on Volkswagen
 § Productively sharing the knowledge of all parties involved
 § Jointly developing solutions to problems
 § Making our decision-making processes transparent 
Successful stakeholder management requires systematic and strategic 
planning, implementation and monitoring of our activities. With this 
in mind, we restructured our stakeholder management system in the 
2017 reporting year: 
 § Planning and Governance: Our brands and divisions are responsi-
ble for maintaining direct contact with our stakeholder groups. We 
combine and manage the resulting commitments at Group level 
(sustainability management).
 § Standardization: Our stakeholder management is guided by 
the standards established at many different levels of regulation 
(policies).
 § Partnerships: At Group level, our work with selected stakeholders 
takes the form of strategic partnerships. An overview of our partner-
ships can be found in the Supplementary Information. 
 § Participation: We see our stakeholders as partners and involve 
them in our decision-making processes. In addition to the strong 
culture of co-determination at Volkswagen, the activities of our 
Group Sustainability Council should also be mentioned here.
 § Consultation: An overview of our programs and initiatives for dia-
log and interaction can be found in the Supplementary Information. 
Information received from NGOs may also prompt us to initiate 
discussions and examine opportunities for cooperation.
 § Evaluation: Each year, we collect feedback from our stakeholders 
through our Stakeholder Panel and our stakeholder surveys.  
The results of our 2017 reputation study can be found in the  
Supplementary Information.
 §  Documentation and Communication: Our Sustainability Report is 
our primary medium for documenting our activities, supplemented 
by Shift, our sustainability magazine. We regularly provide addition-
al information on current projects in press releases and newsletters 
and on social media. 
STAKEHOLDER SUGGESTIONS AND VOLKSWAGEN AG RESPONSES 
GRi 102-43, 102-44
Topics Stakeholders Volkswagen AG
sustainability management incorporate sustainability strategy into 
corporate strategy
toGetheR – strategy 2025
 § Vision: sustainable Mobility
 § sustainable Growth:  
we thrill our customers with tailor-made 
mobility solutions and serve their diverse 
needs with a portfolio of strong brands. we 
assume and exercise responsibility for the 
environment, safety and social issues. we 
act with integrity and build on reliability, 
quality and passion as the foundation stones 
of our work
integrity and governance place integrity and technological competence  
on an equal footing
 § creation of the position of board Member for 
integrity and legal Affairs
 § toGetheR – strategy 2025:  
Model of integrity
 § Multilingual integrity program
Greenhouse-gas and pollutant emissions close the gap between emissions in the lab  
and on the road
 § toGetheR – strategy 2025:  
carbon footprint kpi
 § electrification
 § Volkswagen welcomes the introduction of 
RDe and wltp, as both testing methods 
will help close the gap between emissions 
measured in the lab and under real driving 
conditions.
communicating sustainability identify and communicate 
conflicting objectives
 § shift sustainability magazine provides  
critical self-scrutiny and dialog
 § Decision-making processes are informed  
by regular stakeholder surveys and dialog 
event
corporate strategy kpis for transformation into 
mobility services provider
 § Development of new kpis as part of  
toGetheR – strategy 2025
