VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
4
About this RepoRt
REPORTING PRINCIPLES
For the first time, Volkswagen AG will issue a nonfinancial statement 
at company level for reporting year 2017 and a nonfinancial Group 
statement for reporting year 2017, which will be published together as 
a combined separate nonfinancial report in the sense of HGB sections 
289b para. 3 and 315b para. 3 as part of the Group Sustainability  
Report 2017. The nonfinancial report is drawn up in accordance with  
HGB sections 315b and 315c, in conjunction with sections 289c 
through 289e. Furthermore, the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) were used as the framework for drawing up the non-
financial report. In this nonfinancial report, Volkswagen has system-
atically used the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
as the underlying structure for the materiality analysis and reports 
on management approaches, as well as the specific standard disclo-
sures also included in the GRI Content Index. As required by CSR-RUG, 
this nonfinancial report concentrates on those action areas that are 
necessary for an understanding of the Volkswagen Group’s business 
development, performance and position, as well as the Volkswagen 
Group’s influence on nonfinancial aspects. 
In terms of content, the Group Sustainability Report was prepared in 
compliance with the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI), applying the “Comprehensive” option. At the same time, the  
GRI Content Index shows how we are implementing the requirements 
of the United Nations Global Compact (UN GC) and have committed 
ourselves to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
as well as the criteria of the German Sustainability Code (DNK).
Important ideas for the report’s content were provided by the ques-
tionnaires and appraisals of sustainability-oriented rating agencies.  
We also took our lead from Stakeholder Engagement Standard AA1000.
To validate issues of material significance for the Volkswagen Group 
resulting from various global challenges, we drew upon the findings  
of the Volkswagen Group’s Stakeholder Panel, which has been in place 
for many years now, as well as the results of the latest comprehensive  
stakeholder surveys conducted by Group companies Audi, MAN, 
Porsche and Volkswagen Financial Services.
This sustainability report also takes account of the recommendations 
made by the previous Stakeholder Panel following the latter’s evalua-
tion of the Group Sustainability Report.
To manage its sustainability performance, the Volkswagen Group re-
cords strategic key performance indicators (KPIs) in accordance with 
the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the 
framework for ESG (environment, social and governance) indicators 
defined by the European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies 
(EFFAS). Increasingly, shareholders and investors are calling for trans-
parency, making them an important target group for our sustainability 
reporting. 
The KPIs presented in this report build on the indicators presented 
in previous years. We have made no changes in the methods used to 
collect and measure the data on our sustainability performance. The 
Volkswagen Group’s global production network comprised 120 produc-
tion sites at the end of the reporting year. This is now the sixth time we 
have reported our emissions in line with Scope 3 of the WBCSD/WRI 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG).
In general, the KPIs relate to the entire Group. In addition to Volkswa-
gen AG, the Group includes all major subsidiaries inside and outside 
Germany that are directly or indirectly controlled by Volkswagen AG. 
In the financial data, our joint ventures in China are reported using the 
equity accounting method. However, they are included in full (100%) 
in volume-related data (sales, production and workforce) and environ-
mentally relevant data. 
GRi 102-45, 102-48, 102-49  
 
 
REPORTING PRACTICES
The nonfinancial report and Group Sustainability Report are published 
annually. In addition to information about the Group’s sustainability 
activities in the 2017 fiscal year (1 January to 31 December 2017), the 
sustainability report also contains selected information from the 2018 
fiscal year. The editorial deadline was 6 February 2018, and both re-
ports appear in German and English. The next nonfinancial report will 
be published in the second quarter (Q2) of 2019, and we anticipate that 
the next Group Sustainability Report will also appear in Q2 2019. 
REPORT AUDIT
The combined separate nonfinancial report prepared in accordance 
with HGB sections 289b para. 3 and 315b para. 3 was subjected to a 
voluntary, limited assurance audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) in accordance with ISAE 3000 
(Revised), to verify that its disclosures comply with the principles of 
the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initia-
tive and the relevant statutory requirements. 
Further information on the audit can be found in the independent 
auditor’s remarks on nonfinancial reporting in the Independent 
Assurance Report.
