VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
22
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  toGetheR – stRAteGy 2025
TARGET DIMENSION: EXCELLENT EMPLOYER
Skilled and dedicated employees are one of the keys to sustainable 
success. We seek to boost our employees’ job satisfaction and motiva-
tion by offering equal opportunities, a modern and attractive working 
environment, and a forward-looking work organization. This offering 
is based on exemplary leadership and corporate culture, enabling us 
to retain our core workforce and attract new talent.
The strategic KPIs of this target dimension cover internal employer 
attractiveness determined by means of the opinion survey, external 
employer attractiveness, an external employer ranking as well as a 
KPI pertaining to cross-brand exchange and rotation and the diversity 
index.
TARGET DIMENSION: ROLE MODEL FOR  
THE ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND INTEGRITY
Every day, we in the Volkswagen Group assume and exercise responsi-
bility for the environment, safety and society. This sense of responsi-
bility informs all our thoughts, actions and all the decisions we make, 
in equal measure.
We pay particular attention to the resources used and emissions gen-
erated by our product portfolio, as well as our locations and plants. 
Our goal is to continuously reduce our carbon footprint and lower 
our pollutant emissions. Through our innovations and outstanding 
quality, we seek to meet the highest standards of product safety. 
Our paramount principles include compliance with laws and regula-
tions, the establishment of safe, reliable processes, and open acknowl-
edgment of mistakes so they can be avoided or rectified in the future. 
In terms of integrity, Volkswagen aims to become the role model for a 
modern, transparent and successful enterprise.
The strategic KPIs of this target dimension include the decarbonization 
index, KPIs pertaining to emissions figures, as well as to compliance, 
process reliability and a culture of dealing openly with mistakes.  
TARGET DIMENSION: COMPETITIVE PROFITABILITY
Investors judge us by whether we are able to meet our obligations 
with respect to interest payments and debt repayments. As equity 
holders, they expect suitable dividends and a lasting increase in the 
value of their shares.
We make investments with a view to achieving profitable growth and 
strengthening our competitiveness, thereby keeping the Volkswagen 
Group on a firm footing and ensuring it remains an attractive invest-
ment option.
To achieve operational excellence in all business processes, and to 
become an industry benchmark – those are the goals we have set 
ourselves.
Here, our strategic KPIs are operationalized for internal management 
purposes: target and actual data are derived from Volkswagen Group 
figures.
STRATEGIC KPIS:  
COMPETITIVE PROFITABILITY
2015 2025
operating return on sales* 6.0% 7 to 8%
Research and development 
ratio (R&D ratio) in the  
Automotive Division
7.4% ~ 6%
capex/sales revenue in the 
Automotive Division
6.9% ~ 6%
Net cash flow in the  
Automotive Division
€ 8,887 million positive, to allow a 
distribution ratio of 
30%
Net liquidity in the Automotive 
Division
€ 24,522 million ~ 10% of consolidated 
sales revenue
Return on investment (Roi) in 
the Automotive Division
– 0.2% > 15%
* 2015 before special items.
