VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
41
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  supplieR  MANAGeMeNt
SUPPLIER TRAINING 
To anchor the Sustainability in Supplier Relations concept more 
firmly throughout the Group, we are making employees more aware 
of sustainability issues along the supply chain and providing them 
with appropriate training. The concept is an established part of the 
skills profile for all Procurement employees. In 2017, more than 
2,000 procurement staff worldwide were given training in this area. 
In addition, buyers of components associated with higher sustain-
ability risks were given an intensive training program in a separate 
format.
To facilitate ongoing supplier development, we make an e-learning 
module on sustainability available to all suppliers as part of our 
business relationship, as well as to Volkswagen Group procurement 
staff, in all languages of the countries which have been defined as 
compliance risks. By the end of the reporting year, 29,000 suppliers 
– representing 80% of our procurement volume – had completed the 
e-learning module. 
STATUS QUO E-LEARNING „SUSTAINABILITY QUESTIONNAIRE“
Total 
2012–2017, 
cumulated
Status 
in 2017, 
based on 
procurement 
expenditure
Procurement 
expenditure- 
based target 
for 2016
Procurement 
expenditure- 
based target 
for 2018
e-learning 29,000 80%  83% 83%
 
Alongside the e-learning format, we also conduct issue-specific sustain-
ability training courses and workshops with our suppliers at selected 
locations. During the reporting period, training events were held in 
Turkey, India, Italy, Germany, Argentina and Brazil. In total, around 700 
personnel employed by some 360 of our suppliers were given training 
on sustainability issues at these events. 
In 2015, as part of our efforts to work with our suppliers to minimize 
the negative environmental impacts of our vehicles, we also joined the 
CDP Supply Chain Program, which documents greenhouse gas emis-
sions along the entire value chain. 
 further information on this topic can be found in the  
products and production section on page 52
