VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
75
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  ManageMent aPPRoach PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: excellent eMPloyeR
Strategic Objective: 
Excellent Employer
Seeking to be an attractive employer is not an end in itself. We will 
only be able to sustain the enduring commitment and motivation 
of our employees if we keep the promises we have made about the 
working conditions in our company. And only if we can make these 
promises visible to the outside world will we be perceived as attractive 
in an increasingly competitive talent market, and consequently be 
able to attract and retain the best people.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER* 
at Volkswagen AG (in %)
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Women 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3
Men 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4
Total 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4
* Not incl. age-related turnover.
Our “Empower to transform” strategy fuses the external and internal 
aspects of employer attractiveness by seamlessly reconciling the 
consistency of our employer’s promise with the real-world employee 
experience, that is, how our quality as an employer is actually per-
ceived by individuals on a day-to-day basis. 
Participation, individual responsibility and opportunities for person-
al growth are a very important part of our promise as an employer: 
inspired by visions of the “democratic enterprise”, we wish to see our 
employees become empowered, competent and confident “company 
citizens” who actively contribute to shaping the company and partici-
pate in decision-making processes.
Such a corporate culture is underpinned by binding standards that 
protect employees from arbitrary decisions in the workplace and 
safeguard their opportunities for participation.
EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS IN THE VOLKSWAGEN GROUP 
gRi 102-41
The cornerstones of collaborative and harmonious labor relations at 
Volkswagen are universal human rights and the conventions of the 
International Labour Organization. Based on these, we have agreed 
various charters and declarations with our Group European Works 
Council (GEWC) and Global Group Works Council (GGWC) that safe-
guard the collective rights of our employees in the workplace and the 
organization of their work. They include: 
 §  The Declaration on Social Rights and Industrial Relations at 
 Volks wagen (the Volkswagen Social Charter). We set out the 
fundamental social rights of employees in this declaration in 2002. 
These are based on the relevant conventions of the International 
 Labour Organization. A revised version of the Social Charter was 
signed in 2012.
 § The Charter on Labor Relations. This charter came into force 
in autumn 2009 and combines greater consultative rights for 
 representative bodies with shared responsibilities. It defines the 
rights to information, consultation and co-determination 
 enjoyed by employee representatives of brands, companies and 
sites  represented on the GEWC and GGWC.
by any comparative measure, the employee turnover rate at volkswagen 
is very low, indicating that the strategic focus of our hR policies has 
successfully positioned us as an attractive employer.
