VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
46
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  Risk MANAGeMeNt
Risk Management
Promptly identifying the risks and opportunities associated with our 
operating activities and taking a forward-thinking approach to manag-
ing them is crucial to our Company’s long-term success. A foresighted 
risk management process and effective internal control systems are 
therefore vitally important to us. Not only do we set high internal stan-
dards, we also insist that all our suppliers along our entire value chain 
comply with these standards.
Our risk management and internal control system (RMS/ICS) defines 
the primary principles and elements of our Group, forming the basis 
for the appropriate and effective management and control of material 
risks. This includes not only risks with impacts limited purely to the 
Volkswagen Group, but also risks that could have impacts on the envi-
ronment and society.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL  
CONTROL SYSTEM (RMS/ICS)
Our comprehensive RMS/ICS helps us deal with risks in a responsible 
manner. The organizational design of the Volkswagen Group’s RMS/
ICS is based on the internationally recognized COSO Enterprise Risk 
Management framework (COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Orga-
nizations of the Treadway Commission). In the reporting year, we 
continued to pursue a risk management approach that combines 
aspects of the internal control system with aspects of the compliance 
management system. 
Our organizational guideline on risk management requires all 
divisions and business units to put a RMS/ICS in place. The exact 
operational form of the RMS/ICS is up to the risk managers in the 
individual divisions and business units. The Group Risk Management 
function supports the divisions by providing necessary training and 
participating in conceptual development.
The Board of Management receives ad-hoc, quarterly and annual risk 
reports. 
In 2017, we continued to reinforce our internal control system in 
the area of product compliance. This includes what are known as the 
Golden Rules. 
Any assessment of the probability and scope of future events or 
developments is, by its nature, subject to uncertainty. We are therefore 
aware that even the best RMS cannot foresee all potential risks and 
even the best ICS can never completely prevent irregular or non-com-
pliant actions.
Another key element of our RMS/ICS is the three lines of defense 
model – a basic element required, among others, by the European 
Confederation of Institutes of Internal Auditing (ECIIA). In line with 
this model, our RMS/ICS has three lines of defense that are designed 
to protect us from the occurrence of material risks. 
A detailed overview of our risk management and internal control system can  
be found in the Report on Risks and opportunities in our Annual Report 2017 on 
page 165–168.
