VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
51
Products and Production  |  ManageMent aPProach –  Products and Production Products and Production  |  ManageMent aPProach –  Products and Production
RESOURCE CONSERVATION THROUGHOUT LIFE CYCLE
Our vision of forward­thinking, environmentally minded mobility 
spans every stage in the value chain. A comprehensive environmental 
assessment must consider all the environmental impacts of a  vehicle 
over its full life cycle, from the manufacturing process – including 
resource extraction, production of materials, supplier  processes and 
our own in­house production at all locations – through the use phase 
– including driving emissions, fuel preparation and supply – through 
to the ultimate recycling of the vehicle at the end of its life cycle.
The Group Environmental Conference held in September 2017 posi­
tioned “LifeCycle Thinking” as one of the key elements in our future 
business activities. 
Improving each vehicle’s environmental performance over its full life 
cycle is one of the environmental objectives of the Technical Develop­
ment function of our Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Volkswagen 
Commercial Vehicles brands. To meet this goal, we prepare detailed 
life cycle assessments (LCAs) for new vehicles, powertrains, compo­
nents and materials. One of the outcomes of these activities was the 
creation of our in­house software package LEAD (Life Cycle Environ­
mental Assessment Database). The system supports the Group­wide 
sharing of harmonized data that guarantees the use of standardized 
routines for calculating environmental footprints. 
Further information on sustainability standards as value creators  
for our brands can be found at: 
– Audi | aluminium stewardship initiative 
In addition, 44 production sites have had their energy management 
systems certified under the ISO 50001 standard. Since 2009, the 
“ Integration of Environmental Factors into the Volkswagen Brand’s 
Product Development” model used in the Volkswagen Passenger Cars 
brand’s Technical Development department has also been certified 
to ISO/TR 14062.
In order to devise and implement savings initiatives at Group loca­
tions, the Environment Task Force analyzes production processes 
and workshop infrastructure. This optimization team from Corporate 
 Environmental Research investigates and evaluates resource and 
 energy flows in production, together with the resulting environ­
mental impacts. Based on experience gathered from more than 
30 analyses, the team is now able to systematically strengthen and 
drive forward the sharing of initiatives. With the Environment Task 
Force’s support, we were able to transfer these initiatives to South 
America, North America and China. Existing ideas – as well as many 
newly  developed ones – were evaluated in terms of their local and 
climate­specific impacts and implemented wherever possible.
We use the “Massnahmen@web” IT system to record and catalog 
 environmental measures and make them available for Group­wide­
sharing of best practices. In the reporting period, some 1,600 imple­
mented initiatives relating to energy and the environment were 
documented in this system, all serving to improve our passenger car 
and light commercial vehicle infrastructure and production processes. 
As well as being worthwhile from an environmental viewpoint, these 
activities also make financial sense, resulting in annual savings of 
more than €37 million.
Further information on iso 50001 certification can be found in the  
sustainability sections of our brands: 
– Volkswagen 
– Audi 
– Seat 
– ŠKODA  
– Bentley 
– Lamborghini 
– Porsche 
– Volkswagen Nutzfahrzeuge 
–  MAN
 
SITES WITH ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION
previous year in brackets
ISO 14001
100 (95)
ISO 50001
44 (42)
