VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
24
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  custoMeR sAtisfActioN AND custoMeR loyAlty  
E-MOBILITY AND DIGITALIZATION IN GROUP SALES
By 2025, as part of our Roadmap E, we plan to offer our customers 
around the world more than 80 new electric models, including some 
50 pure battery-driven vehicles and 30 plug-in hybrids. This campaign 
will be complemented by vehicle-related, customer-focused offers, 
such as customized charging infrastructure solutions and mobile  
online services. This is turning the Volkswagen Group from an 
automotive manufacturer into a mobility service provider, posing 
completely new sales challenges.
We are making highly targeted use of the opportunities of digitali-
zation in sales. Our actions are guided by a clearly defined strategy 
that requires extensive cooperation between the brands to achieve 
the greatest possible synergies. Our aim here is to create a completely 
new product experience for our customers – one which is impressive 
with its seamless customer communications, from the initial interest 
in purchasing a vehicle, to servicing, and ultimately to the sale of the 
used car. In the process, we are thus opening up new business models 
and opportunities in every aspect of the connected vehicle – in par-
ticular mobility and other services. Vehicles are becoming an integral 
part of the customer’s digital world of experience. We take great care to 
make all processes transparent so that customers always retain control 
of their own data.
We also gear our internal processes and structures to the pace of 
digital innovation. The result is project teams operating across 
different business areas, new forms of cooperation, a more intensive 
relationship with the international start-up scene, a consolidation of 
venture capital expertise – as a form of supporting innovative ideas 
and business models – as well as new lean systems and cloud-based 
IT solutions.
FLEET CUSTOMER BUSINESS  
Our business relationships with fleet customers are often long-term 
partnerships. In a volatile environment, this customer group guaran-
tees more stable vehicle sales than the private customer segment.
The Volkswagen Group has an established base of business fleet 
customers in Germany and the rest of Europe in particular. Our ex-
tensive product range enables us to satisfy their individual mobility 
needs from a single source.
In fiscal year 2017, the share of fleet customers in total registrations 
in Germany remained stable at 14.1% (14.1%) amid a 2.7% growth in 
the market. The Volkswagen Group’s share of this customer segment 
decreased to 44.7% (47.1%). Outside Germany, we recorded growth 
in the Group’s share of registrations by fleet customers in Europe to 
25.2% (24.5%). On the whole, the Volkswagen Group’s share in Europe 
remained constant at 28.9% (28.9%). This shows that fleet customers 
still have considerable confidence in the Group.
AFTER SALES AND SERVICE 
In addition to individual service, the timely provision of genuine 
parts is essential in ensuring passenger car customer satisfaction in 
After Sales. The genuine parts supplied by our passenger cars brands 
and the expertise of the service centers represent the highest level of 
quality and ensure the safety and value retention of our customers’ 
vehicles. With our global after-sales network including more than  
120 of our own warehouses, we ensure that almost all our authorized 
service facilities around the world can be supplied within 24 hours. 
We regard ourselves as a complete provider of all products and ser-
vices relevant to customers in the after-sales business. Together with 
our partners, we ensure the worldwide mobility of our customers. The 
partner businesses offer the entire portfolio of services in all vehicle 
classes. We are continuously expanding our range of tailored services 
in order to improve convenience for our customers and increase 
customer satisfaction.
Around the world, our commercial vehicles business also prides itself 
on products of the highest quality and on strong customer focus. Our 
range of trucks, buses and engines is complemented by services that 
guarantee fuel efficiency, reliability and good vehicle availability. The 
workshop service and service contracts offer customers a high degree 
of certainty in addition to high quality. We are reducing servicing 
times and costs with a view to reducing vehicles’ total operating costs 
and helping them retain their value. 
In the Power Engineering segment, we help our customers ensure the 
availability of machinery with MAN PrimeServ. The global network 
of more than 100 PrimeServ locations guarantees excellent customer 
focus and offers, among other things, replacement parts of genuine 
parts quality, qualified technical service and long-term maintenance 
contracts.
