VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
96
Appendix  |  SUppLeMenTARY indiCATORS
As in previous years, we present key environmental indicators for our 
production operations in reporting year 2017. 
The indicators presented here include selected environmental data 
for the Volkswagen Group in aggregated form. The data is collected, 
checked and approved at our production sites in line with an internal 
standard (VW Standard 98 000). In order to improve the accuracy and 
consistency of the resulting information, the collection of environmen-
tally relevant consumption and emission data is subject to a continu-
ous improvement process. This applies in particular to those items of 
information that are calculated using special algorithms. Furthermore, 
the values for December of the preceding year may include some esti-
mated data if, for example, they are based on bills from power suppli-
ers or waste disposal providers which were not yet available at the time 
of compilation. In the next data collection round, this estimated data 
will be replaced with the finalized figures for December.
In line with corporate monitoring of our environmental strategy, the 
reported time series are related back to the 2010 baseline. The current 
reporting year and the preceding year complete the reporting period.
Overall, environmental data is collected from the Group’s production 
sites.
As in the Volkswagen Group’s Annual Report, data in the “Car and light 
commercial vehicles” category is reported for 2010, 2016 and 2017. 
Data for the brands Scania AB, MAN SE, Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. 
and VW Kraftwerk GmbH is reported in the “Other divisions” category; 
the respective proportions are shown separately in the graphs. Unless 
otherwise indicated, all the Group’s production sites, together with the 
power stations and boiler plants operated by Volkswagen AG in Wolfs-
burg, Kassel and Hanover in Germany, are included in both categories.
The data covers 113 of the Group’s 120 production sites. No data is 
available for Scania’s seven Regional Product Centers. These correspond 
to approx. 0.1% of the workforce at the production sites, hence have no 
relevant influence on the Group’s KPIs.
The Volkswagen Group is essentially an automotive manufacturer  
which produces cars and light commercial vehicles, as well as 
heavy-duty commercial vehicles and buses. MAN SE does, however, 
also manufacture marine engines and power station components. In 
view of this product diversity, our overall environmental impact can-
not simply be expressed in terms of the volume of vehicles produced. 
Consequently, relative indicators are only shown for the “Car and light 
commercial vehicles” category. The number of vehicles produced in 
2017 totaled 10,667,549 cars and light commercial vehicles, as well as 
207,451 heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
The changing production volumes and associated fluctuations in 
capacity utilization levels at our various locations are reflected in 
changes in the absolute values of many indicators. However, in-
creased efficiency did result in improvements in the specific values  
of a number of indicators.
Weather conditions have an appreciable but uncontrollable impact on 
the consumption of resources. This relates primarily to space heating 
demand for both production and non-production areas, since the an-
nual average temperatures impact the direct consumption of energy 
sources, as well as the amount of energy purchased from third parties.
The specific values are also influenced by a range of factors. On the 
one hand, absolute consumption or emission levels may change, while 
on the other, rising or falling production volumes at the individual 
production sites also influence the indicators.
Products and Production
