VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
76
PeoPle and ResPonsibility  |  stRategic obJective: excellent eMPloyeR
 § The Charter on Temporary Work. In November 2012, Volkswagen’s 
executive management, the GEWC and GGWC signed this char-
ter setting out the principles governing temporary work. These 
include, for example, a guide ratio of temporary employees to core 
workforce, stipulations on equal pay, equal treatment and training 
programs, plus a time limit of 36 months before the offer of a per-
manent position must be considered.
 § The Charter on Vocational Education and Training. As well as a 
high standard of education, the Group seeks to offer attractive de-
velopment opportunities at its various locations. Approved in 2015, 
this charter recognizes vocational training as a core aspect of labor 
relations. To implement the charter, the social partners define cer-
tain aspects such as the trainee selection process, the duration and 
quality of vocational training, plus the conditions for subsequently 
hiring trainees following an apprenticeship. 
 § In addition, there are a number of country and/or site-specific 
agreements that stipulate, for example, standards for training or 
preventive healthcare measures for individual Group companies. 
 
 
These policy foundations underpin the rights of employees and their 
elected representatives at Group level in the European and Global 
Works Councils. They provide a binding framework for the responsible 
development of existing local labor relations using cooperative conflict 
resolution approaches.
EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION THROUGH ELECTED  
REPRESENTATIVES AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
gRi 102-41
Volkswagen has an internationally recognized culture of co-determina-
tion. At many sites, employees are represented in two ways: firstly, by a 
trade union, and secondly, by representatives elected to a works council. 
Many companies in the Group also have a supervisory board on which 
the workforce is represented. The International Charter on Labor Rela-
tions allows employee representatives around the world to conclude 
agreements with local management on specific rights to information, 
consultation and co-determination.
This widespread form of participation has proved highly successful 
over many decades. When major changes are expected, as in the case 
of the pact regarding the future of the Volkswagen brand that was ne-
gotiated in 2016 and to be implemented by 2020 for example, employ-
ee representatives are involved in the planning process from an early 
stage. This ensures that such processes of change are addressed jointly 
and have the support of all employees. We attach great importance to 
informing the workforce of changes as early as possible. Where bodies 
are composed equally of employee and employer representatives, 
both sides always receive all relevant information at the same time. 
These co-determination structures are by no means static, however. Our 
international employee representative bodies are constantly evolving in 
line with the ongoing development of the Group. Executive managers 
and employee representatives meet regularly to consult on relevant 
issues. For instance, all members of the GEWC and GGWC attend a joint 
session every year. As well as discussing the current situation at the 
various sites, the respective HR managers and Group executive manage-
ment also share information about future product and workforce plans 
and consult on social welfare and personnel standards.
