VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
44
stRAteGy AND MANAGeMeNt  |  coMpliANce
In the long term, we can only succeed as a Company if we act with 
integrity, respect statutory provisions worldwide and stand by our 
voluntary undertakings and ethical principles, even when this is the 
harder choice. Compliance must be second nature to all employees 
of our Group.
The principles set down in the Volkswagen Group’s Code of Conduct, 
which were completely reworked in the reporting year, are of essential 
importance to our employees and have been communicated through-
out the Group. The responsibility of each and every employee to 
comply with rules and regulations is given special emphasis in the 
new Code of Conduct. We have included real-world examples under 
each topic and improved the readability of the text with the aim of 
making it relevant and useful to all employees. The Volkswagen Group 
Code of Conduct was signed by every member of the Group Board of 
Management. 
 
the Volkswagen Group’s complete code of conduct can be found at: 
https://www.volkswagenag.com/presence/nachhaltigkeit/documents/ 
policy-intern/code_of_conduct_2017_Vw_Group_english.pdf
 
Since 2016, the Board of Management’s Integrity and Legal Affairs 
function has been responsible for compliance. A new Group Chief 
Compliance Officer has been in place since April 1, 2017. In the report-
ing year, new structures were created within the compliance organi-
zation and its staff expanded. In addition to centers of competence 
at Group level, the structure includes Divisional Compliance Officers 
and a Regional Compliance Office. The Group Chief Compliance Officer 
reports directly to the Board Member for Integrity and Legal Affairs. 
The compliance organization is closely interconnected by various 
arrangements, including regular conferences and teleconferences. 
In addition, we have established the Volkswagen Group Compliance 
Committee under the direction of the Board Member for Integrity 
and Legal Affairs. The committee addresses monitoring, as well as the 
long-term, coordinated and continuing development of responses to 
fundamental compliance-related issues within the Volkswagen Group. 
The Group Compliance Committee is charged with the evaluation, im-
plementation, coordination and documentation of any adjustments 
that may be required to structures and processes across all divisions 
and Group companies.
The Compliance department has positioned itself to meet fu-
ture challenges. With the aim of better fulfilling this mission and 
drawing on lessons learned from past incidents, our whistleblower 
system, which was put in place in 2006, was improved and partially 
restructured in 2017; further optimization of the processes was 
completed on November 1, 2017. Among other initiatives, a central 
Investigation Office was set up in the Compliance department at the 
beginning of the year. It is responsible for coordinating the Volk-
swagen Group’s whistleblower system and for processing tip-offs 
relating to Volkswagen AG or the Group, including all brands and 
companies.
In addition, AUDI AG, Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG and Volkswagen 
Truck & Bus GmbH are setting up individual brand investigation 
offices for themselves and their subsidiaries. 
Reports of compliance violations can be submitted in all of the 
Group’s main languages and are handled confidentially. The people 
providing the information need not fear being punished by the 
Company for doing so. Whistleblowers always decide for themselves 
whether or not they wish to remain anonymous.
Thus in 2017, an additional, specially protected online reporting 
channel was set up to allow violations to be reported anonymously 
to the Investigation Office. As part of the ongoing development 
of the whistleblower system, employees of Volkswagen AG and 
other Group companies were made more aware of the system for 
reporting non-compliances and the system itself was restructured – 
among other things, to ensure that there was a uniform procedure 
in place across the Group. In 2017, 1,489 reports were registered 
across the Group via the whistleblower system, of which 841 were 
substantiated. In the case of all substantiated reports, investigations 
were or are being carried out, and any misconduct uncovered was or 
is being appropriately punished.
The whistleblower system focuses on the disclosure of suspected 
serious violations as defined in our guideline. We define serious vio-
lations as cases that could cause substantial harm to the interests of 
the Volkswagen Group or one of its Group companies – in particular, 
financial harm or damage to reputation. This includes, for example, 
breaches of criminal laws, violations of U.S. environmental regula-
tions, and especially human rights violations. Infringements of our 
Code of Conduct or other internal regulations may also constitute 
serious procedural violations as defined in our whistleblower guide-
line.
Compliance
