VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
63
Products and Production  |  energy, co?  and cLiMate change  Products and Production  |  energy, co?  and cLiMate change  
EMISSIONS TRADING
32 of our Group locations take part in European emissions trading. 
For 2017, a total of 1,116,441 emissions certificates were allocated to 
the Volkswagen Group free of charge (69,977 fewer than in the previ­
ous year).
The European Commission is planning further modifications in emis­
sions trading when the fourth trading period begins (from 2021) that 
may lead to reinforcement of the system and thus to price increases in 
the certificates. In addition to the EU member states, other countries 
in which the Volkswagen Group has production sites are also consid­
ering introducing an emissions trading system. Seven corresponding 
pilot projects are running in China, for example, although they have 
not so far affected the Volkswagen Group. The Chinese government 
officially implemented a national emissions trading system at the end 
of 2017. Initially, the impact will only be on the energy generation 
sector; a gradual expansion is being planned.  
NEW TEST PROCEDURES FOR MEASURING EXHAUST 
EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION
Since 1 September 2017, new procedures have been in place for 
measuring exhaust­gas emissions (such as particulates and nitrogen 
oxides) and consumption (CO?) by new vehicle models in the EU. On 
test benches, the new WLTP standard is replacing the old NEDC test 
cycle. The new procedure is more dynamic and should better reflect 
on­the­road driving conditions in the laboratory. A significant inno­
vation in the measurement of fuel consumption: in the future, every 
vehicle will also be assigned an individual CO? value. Under the NEDC 
standard, CO? values were arranged in families. 
The abbreviation WLTP stands for “Worldwide Harmonized Light Duty 
Vehicles Test Procedure”. The new test cycle was introduced in order to 
establish internationally standardized CO? emission measurements 
for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, and to provide a 
more realistic picture of levels of CO? emissions and fuel consumption 
for end­customers. 
The second stage of the WLTP cycle’s introductory phase is due to start 
on 1 September 2018, at which point all new vehicles will have to be 
tested using the WLTP’s fuel consumption and exhaust­gas emission 
testing methods.
In addition, under what is known as Real Driving Emissions (RDE) 
legislation, on­the­road threshold values for particulates (PN) and 
nitrogen oxides will also come into force for the first time. This means 
that for the first time, exhaust­gas emission limits will not only apply 
on the test bench, but also on the road.
e-golf (100 kW/136 Ps) – energy consumption in kWh/100 km:  
12.7 (combined); co? emissions in g/km: 0 (combined); co? efficiency 
class: a+.
up! tsi BMt – fuel consumption in l/100 km: urban 5.5 /  
extra-urban 3.8 / combined 4.4; co? emissions in g/km: 101 (combined); 
co? efficiency class: B.
