VOLKSWAGEN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
52
Products and Production  |  ManageMent aPProach –  Products and Production
We lay the foundations for maximizing the fuel economy and 
resource efficiency of our vehicles during the product development 
process.
In 2017, we further extended our innovation and technology leader­
ship by investing in new models, eco­friendly drive technologies and 
enhanced production processes. At the same time, we sought to make 
our cross­brand innovation management even more efficient, and to 
improve the interaction between our brands’ development processes. 
During the 2017 fiscal year, we concentrated our research and 
develop ment activities across the Group on expanding our  product 
port folio and improving the functionality, quality, safety and environ­
mental compatibility of our products – while simultaneously reducing 
the number of platforms we use. Our Group invested €13.1 billion 
in research and development in 2017. Much of this was spent on 
 efficiency­enhancing technologies.
With respect to resource efficiency, we also evaluate life cycle improve­
ment measures in economic terms. Our Corporate Research unit is 
currently involved in two long­term research projects, examining 
what the resource­efficient factory and resource­efficient vehicle of 
the future will look like. New technologies such as electric and fuel­cell 
vehicles play a key role here – especially in terms of their resource 
requirements – as do new closed­loop recycling concepts.
To ensure a holistic approach to optimization, we also involve our 
suppliers along the entire value chain so that together, we can mini­
mize the environmental impacts of our vehicles. We became active 
members of the CDP Supply Chain Program (SCP) back in 2015. In 
2017, we once again used the SCP to survey more than 100 suppliers 
who together represent 43% of our production­related procurement 
spending (excluding services, VW Brazil, Scania and our joint ventures 
in China). Overall, the response rate in 2017 rose to 84% (2016: 83%). 
 According to our suppliers’ self­assessments, they reduced their 
overall emissions by a total of 16.5 million t of CO?­e compared to 
the previous year (2016: 16 million t of CO?­e). In reporting year 
2016, the CDP included Science Based Targets (SBT) in the question­
naire for the first time: 25% of the suppliers who responded have 
already set themselves SBTs or undertaken to do so. These emission 
reduction  developments within our supply chain are contributing 
to  Volkswagen’s positive evaluation under the CDP rating’s Leader­
ship index.
ACTION PLAN – PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION  
In our 2025 environmental program, two indicators record the 
 progress we are making toward attaining two strategic objectives:
 § In this context, we define the decarbonization index (DCI) as a strate­
gic indicator which we use to measure progress. It measures products’ 
CO? emissions along the entire value chain. It is calculated by dividing 
our CO? footprint by the number of vehicles produced. It thus incor­
porates both direct and indirect CO? emissions from the individual 
production sites (Scope 1 and 2), as well as all other CO? emissions 
occurring throughout the life cycle of the vehicles sold – from the 
extraction of raw materials through the use phase to the recycling 
of end­of­life vehicles (Scope 3). The DCI thus makes it possible to 
pursue milestones in a transparent, holistic way as we make our way 
toward climate­friendly mobility. We are currently defining DCI target 
values for 2025, in consultation with the Volkswagen Group brands. 
The outcome should ensure that our target values contribute to  
the two­degree target set in the Paris Agreement concluded at the  
UN Climate Conference in December 2015.
 § Environmental impact reduction production per unit (UEP) was 
defined as part of our environmental production strategy, and target 
values were specified for the Group and brands. By 2025, we intend to 
reduce production­related environmental impacts per vehicle by 45% 
compared with 2010. UEP includes the consumption of energy and 
water, emissions of CO? and VOCs, as well as the volume of waste. 
 
By the end of 2017, we achieved a 30.8% reduction in environmental 
impacts. The status at the end of 2017 compared with the 2010 base­
line breaks down as follows (2016 figures in brackets):
 § specific energy consumption: –17.9% (–17.1%)
 § specific CO? emissions: –26.1% (–19.5%)
 § specific VOC emissions: –49.4% (–40.2%)
 § specific water consumption: –17.1% (–14.3%)
 § specific waste for disposal: –43.3% (–34.7%)
