Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
15
WHAT IS IT LIKE TO BE A COMMITTEE CHAIR  
ON THE GOLDMAN SACHS BOARD?
Bill George and Michele Burns each serve as a chair of one of our Board’s committees. 
As committee chairs, they each work with management to set the agenda and review 
and approve the materials for their respective committees. They lead and engage their 
committee’s members in active oversight and dialogue on the committees’ key areas  
of focus.
Our Public Responsibilities Committee, chaired by Bill George, assists the Board in its 
oversight of the firm’s reputation and approach to business standards, ESG issues, 
corporate engagement and relevant significant public policy issues. The Committee  
reviews key policy documents, including our annual Environmental, Social and Governance 
Report and key ESG-related polices. Our Risk Committee, chaired by Michele Burns,  
assists the Board in its oversight of the firm’s overall risk tolerance and management of 
financial and operational risks.
See how Bill and Michele leverage their varied backgrounds and skill sets in their roles  
as committee chairs.
OVERSIGHT OF REPUTATIONAL RISK
We are required to take on risk to serve our clients, making effective risk management crucial to our success. That  
includes management of reputational risk, including client and business standards considerations and environmental,  
social and governance risk.
Two key firm-level committees that aid in reputational risk management are the Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee, 
which reviews certain transactions that may present the potential for heightened reputational risk, and the Firmwide  
Client and Business Standards Committee, which assesses and makes determinations regarding business standards  
and practices, reputational risk management, client relationships and client service.
The Goldman Sachs Board and each of its committees are focused on the oversight of reputational risk. As part of 
its mandate, the Board’s Public Responsibilities Committee has specific, additional oversight of the firm’s brand and 
reputational risk, including client and business standards considerations and oversight of the Firmwide Reputational  
Risk Committee.
GOVERNANCE
View video
