Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
5
KEY THEMES
These conversations, along with our reaffirmation of long-held 
principles of inclusion, are invaluable to our organization. They 
enable us to benefit, to the greatest extent possible, from wide-
ranging viewpoints and ideas.
What is more, as a global business — and a predominantly 
person-to-person business — promoting diverse perspectives 
creates a competitive advantage for the firm and our clients. 
Through programs such as the Black Analyst Initiative and MD 
Retention Initiative, which supports the success and retention of 
diverse managing directors, we continue to develop and retain 
a diverse talent pipeline by increasing the accountability and 
connectivity between all professionals, empowering managers 
and facilitating development opportunities.
This approach allows us to draw from the largest possible pool of talent, fosters innovation, drives improved decision-
making and enables us to provide our clients with the guidance and localized knowledge they need to succeed in global 
markets that are, themselves, incredibly diverse. At the same time, it helps us become more relevant to the communities in 
which we work and live, giving us greater insight into local cultures, helping us provide opportunities for local businesses 
and, ultimately, helping us contribute to economic development that benefits everyone.
As a firm that values diversity and a spirit of teamwork, we find it valuable to come together to share 
experiences and perspectives — about our commonalities, about our differences and about using 
both to enhance our workplace and bring the best of the firm to our clients. Having open and honest 
conversations was especially critical throughout the past year, when social and political events 
underscored the importance of such dialogue.
FEATURED STORIES:
DIALOGUE ON RACE 
Led by our CEO and featuring 
senior managers and external 
thought leaders, this Talks at GS 
series addresses race relations 
and the value of open and  
honest dialogue.
View video
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
At Goldman Sachs, we believe fair 
competition is critical to healthy 
economic development in the 
communities we call home, and 
consequently value a diverse and 
inclusive supply chain.
Read more
GENDER PAY EQUITY  
AT GOLDMAN SACHS
Goldman Sachs has long been 
committed to equal employment 
opportunity, including compensating 
all of our employees equitably at  
all levels of the firm. 
Read more
HOW DOES DIFFERENCE MAKE 
THE DIFFERENCE?
