Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
8
WHAT BIG SHIFTS ARE EMERGING 
NOW? WHAT’S ON THE HORIZON?
KEY THEMES
At Goldman Sachs, we strongly believe in the value of 
sharing our best thinking and engaging experts around 
the world to share their own perspectives. We believe 
doing so benefits all participants in the economy by 
advancing understanding, expanding the conversation 
and inviting others to build on our insights. We draw 
on a broad spectrum of resources from across the firm, 
including unique work on ESG issues from the Global 
Markets Institute and the GS SUSTAIN teams within 
Global Investment Research.
A trove of our insights on everything from macroeconomics to technological trends is freely shared with clients, investors, 
policymakers, NGOs and others. These assets are available as reports, videos, podcast discussions and interactive graphics. 
To explore them, visit www.gs.com/our-thinking.
How do trends in China impact the rest of the world? What are the effects of big shifts in investor 
behavior? What are the latest macroeconomic developments, and how will they likely play out on 
Wall Street and on Main Street? Day after day, our strategists and analysts focus on how the world, 
and the economy, are changing, and we share our insights with partners and the public at large.
FEATURED STORIES:
CHINA IN TRANSITION
With 1.4 billion people and a 
GDP of $19.4 trillion, China has 
profound impacts across Asia 
and around the world.
Read more
DIRECTORS’ DILEMMA: 
RESPONDING TO THE RISE 
OF PASSIVE INVESTING
With investors moving in large 
numbers to passive and other forms 
of rule-based investing, stock prices 
are increasingly correlated to the  
rise and fall of whole sectors, which 
makes them less indicative of 
underlying company performance.
Read more
THE LOW CARBON  
ECONOMY: TECHNOLOGY  
IN THE DRIVER’S SEAT
A year after the Paris Agreement, with 
markets focused on near-term headwinds 
and policy uncertainty for renewable 
energy following the U.S. election, 
Goldman Sachs Research believes key 
renewable technologies will maintain 
momentum as they are now as much a 
transformative tech shift as a response  
to global environmental challenges.
Read more
