Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
3
KEY THEMES
The foundation for a low carbon energy future, involving not only power sources like wind and solar, 
but also such wide-ranging industries as lighting and transportation, continued to strengthen in 2016. 
Renewables and clean technology are scaling up faster than expected, with advancing technology 
and significant cost declines drawing investors and accelerating growth. What’s more, substantial 
economic benefits have become more obvious, perhaps most significantly in the expansion of 
infrastructure and local jobs.
HOW DOES CLEAN ENERGY  
HELP US GROW?
Goldman Sachs has been instrumental as both an investor and 
financier in clean energy development. We have already achieved our 
initial target, set in 2012, of deploying $40 billion over 10 years in the 
clean energy space — investing and financing some $54 billion through 
the end of 2016. In 2015, we expanded this initial goal to $150 billion 
in capital by 2025. This will ensure that we continue to play a key role, 
leveraging capital markets to aid in the global transition to greater 
energy security and sustainable economic growth.
The impact of our investment and expertise has been visible and 
substantial. From 2012 through May 2016, when we reached the initial 
$40 billion target, we helped 89 companies and projects scale up clean energy and renewables in 29 countries, helping 
facilitate 31 gigawatts of renewable electricity generation — enough to power 5.5 million U.S. homes. Our investments 
and financings have also fueled the broader clean tech ecosystem: the development of electric cars, smart grids and 
manufacturing capacity for solar components and advanced biofuels.
Together, these companies and projects have helped to employ tens of thousands of people and have had a significant 
positive economic impact on local communities. What’s more, they are helping to avoid millions of metric tons of 
greenhouse gas emissions per year.
FEATURED STORIES:
CLEAN ENERGY
IMPACT REPORT
Clean tech and renewables are 
growing and are resulting in 
significant benefits, from reduced 
environmental impact to economic 
development in markets worldwide. 
Read more
THE THREE DRIVERS OF  
A LOW CARBON FUTURE
Technology, Capital and Policy — all have 
a leading role to play in increasing energy 
security, reducing negative impacts and 
moving the global economy to a more 
sustainable energy system.
View video 
DRIVING TESLA
Goldman Sachs has had a long-
standing relationship with Tesla, the 
world’s only clean energy company  
to offer end-to-end clean energy 
products — electric vehicles, energy 
storage systems and solar products.
Read more
