Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
2
Welcome to our 2016 interactive Environmental, Social and Governance Report. As a global financial services 
company, we are in a position to help address global environmental and social challenges, and to support 
opportunities for economic growth, including within local communities.  
We do this in a number of ways across our businesses. We work with a variety of clients including companies, local, 
state and national governments, and investors. We help connect them to capital to help grow their operations, facilitate 
investment or provide them with risk management solutions. These activities play a critical role in helping to support a 
sustainable economy.
As a management team, we acknowledge the importance of sustainability as a driver of long-term value creation for our 
shareholders. It is also an important part of our contribution to the communities where our people and clients work and 
live. Our 2016 Environmental, Social and Governance Report describes how we approach the environment, our people and 
corporate governance — all fundamental areas that underpin our approach to sustainability. It also highlights six examples 
of our sustainability-related efforts over the past year, including:
 • Driving market opportunities for clean energy • Expanding our ESG and impact investing footprint 
 • Embracing our differences • Supporting job growth and small businesses 
 • Innovating to address client and market needs • Sharing our thoughts and insights 
Continuous engagement with a variety of investors and other constituents on these matters is important to us, and provides 
us with invaluable perspectives that will continue to inform our approach. We encourage you to explore our 2016 interactive 
Environmental, Social and Governance Report and we look forward to continuing our engagement in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
 
Lloyd C. Blankfein David M. Solomon Harvey M. Schwartz 
Chairman and  President and President and  
Chief Executive Officer Co-Chief  Operating Officer Co-Chief  Operating Officer 
INTRODUCTORY LETTER
FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS
Center: 
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Chairman and Chief  Executive Officer
Left: 
David M. Solomon
President and  
Co-Chief  Operating Officer
Right: 
Harvey M. Schwartz
President and  
Co-Chief  Operating Officer
