Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
6
KEY THEMES
A prime example, introduced in 2016, is Marcus by 
Goldman Sachs™, an online lending platform that helps 
people better manage high-interest credit card debt. 
Marcus was created with the input of thousands of 
consumers, who shared experiences about the moments 
in life that create debt and the challenges of managing 
it. Consumer feedback also drove key features of 
the product, including fixed rates, no fees ever and 
customizable monthly payment options.
Client feedback also drove the development of our key 
Marquee app SIMON, a turnkey solution for financial 
advisors that makes it easier to understand, analyze and 
customize structured investments. SIMON pairs best-
in-class educational content with a robust suite of Web-based analytics to help advisors inform their clients, introduce 
structured investments as part of the clients’ portfolios and customize risk management solutions to meet specific client 
needs. By enabling our competitors to offer products on the platform, we ensure our clients have access to the best, 
most cost-effective product — even if it is not from us. The platform currently sits on the desktop of more than 15,000 
financial advisors, up from 2,400 at the end of 2015. Client feedback has been outstanding, and continues to drive further 
development of the platform.
We are proud that our hard work leveraging technology to innovate for clients has not gone unnoticed; Fast Company,  
for example, named us the #1 innovator in financial services in 2017.
Through our use of technology, data and the strength of our balance sheet, we are working to create 
client-centric offerings that are simple, intuitive and provide value.
FEATURED STORIES:
MARCUS CLOSE-UP 
Marcus by Goldman Sachs™ 
represents a breakthrough  
in terms of simplicity, 
value and customizability. 
Experience Marcus. 
View website
MARCUS FINANCIAL 
HEALTH
Education is a major part of bringing 
debt management under control.  
See how we’re doing our part to 
share insights on credit and debt. 
Read the articles
SIMON LEARNING VIDEO
Structured investments are powerful tools 
that can be leveraged for risk management 
solutions. See how SIMON pairs education 
and analytics to provide financial advisors 
with a robust, Web-based tool to help meet 
their clients’ needs.
View video
HOW CAN WE INNOVATE TO DELIVER 
WHAT CLIENTS WANT NOW?
