Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
4
WHAT IS POWERING THE  
ESG INVESTING SURGE?
KEY THEMES
Better data, refined tools and improved  
methods have expanded the possibilities  
across all of those interests.
As a result, ESG investing is no longer a carve-
out within a portfolio — it IS the portfolio for 
some investors. What was once the province of 
a small number of family offices and foundations 
has drawn sharply increased participation among 
pension funds, insurance companies, nonprofits 
and faith-based investors.
At Goldman Sachs, the growth of ESG investing has been significant, and it has accelerated since the acquisition of Imprint 
Capital, a leading ESG advisor, in 2015. We have seen a virtuous cycle in which demand has driven product and service 
innovation, creating new models for success and driving further demand. As a result, our assets under supervision in 
dedicated ESG strategies have grown significantly, to $6.5 billion by the end of 2016.
Fundamental to this growth is an increased understanding that a disciplined approach to ESG investing can drive competitive 
risk-adjusted returns — just as with any other investment. Risk/return profiles of ESG portfolios now mirror the markets and 
span asset classes, fueling the evolution of impact investment strategies that meet conventional risk/return hurdles, but also 
include social and environmental impacts that are both intentional and measurable.
ESG investing, once a sideline practice, has gone decisively mainstream — and this is creating real 
opportunities for investors. These opportunities meet the interests of a wide spectrum of clients, 
from fiduciaries aligning their portfolios with the realities of a rapidly changing world to clients who 
are increasingly looking to have their investments express their values.
FEATURED STORIES:
GROWTH OF  
ESG AUS
Our Assets Under 
Supervision in ESG 
strategies grew  
74% YoY in 2016.
Read more
WORLD RESOURCES 
INSTITUTE
How does a research-driven, 
global institute focused on 
sustainability manage its 
portfolio for the long term?
View video
MUNICIPAL BONDS: AN OVERLOOKED
IMPACT INVESTMENT?
As interest grows in achieving positive impacts while 
generating market-rate returns, investors may forget 
about the opportunity in their own backyards — 
municipal bonds.
Read more
