Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
7
WHERE WILL JOB GROWTH 
COME FROM NEXT?
KEY THEMES
Job growth is crucial to a strong economy — but challenges to employment, from globalization 
to automation, are increasing in markets worldwide. That’s why, at Goldman Sachs, we focus our 
impact investments on developments that stimulate job creation, and why we conduct frequent 
research to better understand the complex, rapidly changing jobs picture.
10,000 Small Businesses, for example, helps to 
empower entrepreneurs who are critical to driving 
innovation, dynamism and job growth in the 
economy. This Goldman Sachs program, which 
provides access to education, capital and business 
support services, has reached more than 7,300 small 
business owners across the U.S. and U.K. through 
the end of 2016. Working with a network of more than 
100 local and national partners, we have deployed 
nearly $150 million in loans and provided important 
networking opportunities, all while enhancing business skills. 10,000 Small Businesses program graduates consistently 
increase revenues and create new jobs at rates that outperform the broader economy.
Revitalizing underserved communities is another important driver of job creation, particularly through projects that address 
multiple community development challenges by combining commercial, residential and community facilities. Since 2001, 
our Urban Investment Group (UIG) has committed more than $5 billion of capital in communities throughout the U.S. These 
investments have created more than 6 million square feet of commercial, retail and industrial space and thousands of 
construction jobs, anchoring economic activity and job creation in places where they are needed most.
In 2016, we studied long-term trends and their impact on jobs. Of particular interest has been the rise of industrial 
automation, its effects on long-term job creation and ways society might respond by rethinking the world of work.
FEATURED STORIES:
10,000 SMALL  
BUSINESSES UPDATE
2016 reports released from lead 10,000  
Small Businesses academic partners in 
the U.S. and U.K. quantified the impact 
of the program in those regions.
Read the U.S. Report
Read the U.K. Report
INVESTING IN  
NEWARK
Since 2010, our Urban 
Investment Group has been 
the largest investor in local 
economic development projects 
in the city of Newark, NJ.
Read more
NARROWING THE JOBS  
GAP: GS RESEARCH
Technology’s long-term benefits  
aside, there are serious short-term 
challenges, including job displacement 
from the rise of automation across  
a range of industries. 
Read more
