Goldman Sachs 2016 ESG Report www.gs.com/esg-report
13PEOPLE
MAXIMIZING THE POTENTIAL OF OUR PEOPLE
We help our people achieve their full potential by supporting a culture of continuous development and building an 
innovative, diverse and inclusive work environment. The firm’s learning programs range from skills-based offerings and 
high-potential leadership programs to roundtable discussions and talks hosted by senior leaders.
Through Goldman Sachs University (GSU), junior employees have access to classes that focus on building foundational 
professional and technical skills. Additionally, the GSU portal on the firm’s intranet site, GSWeb, offers an expansive library 
of over 6,000 self-directed digital offerings, ranging from eLearnings on communicating with impact to a podcast series 
on understanding our businesses. Nearly all employees participate in at least one classroom-based or digital offering each 
year, with analysts consuming more than 300,000 hours of training in 2016.
For our more senior employees, including vice presidents and managing directors, we provide guidance and training on how 
to manage people and projects effectively, exhibit strong leadership and exemplify the firm’s culture. Our nomination-based 
leadership development programs provide top-performing vice presidents and managing directors with skills training, 
individual coaching and networking opportunities to help them to continue to grow in their careers.
In addition, we offer our most senior leaders executive coaching, leadership acceleration initiatives and other training 
through Pine Street, our internal leadership academy. 
ADAPTING THE WORKPLACE TO CHANGING NEEDS 
Investing in our people also means investing in our workplace. Across all regions, we have begun providing a greater variety 
of workplace settings for our people, spanning quiet areas, collaborative and open spaces, and places to focus or relax. 
Studies show that employees who have a variety of workplace settings are often more productive and engaged, and have 
higher levels of job satisfaction, leading to higher retention and stronger client service.
We have surveyed more than 5,000 of our people to evaluate how our teams engage with their workplaces. These surveys 
help us maximize the potential of our people by ensuring that we are optimizing our approach to future real estate and 
workspace design.
View video
Our workplace is adapting to meet the changing needs of our people, helping them to reach their fullest potential.
