12Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
© Sustainalytics 2019 
 
 
Apple Inc. 2017 Green Bond Annual Review 
Type of Engagement: Annual Review 
Date: February 6, 2019 
Engagement Leader: Zach Margolis, zach.margolis@sustainalytics.com, +1 647 695 4341  
 
Introduction 
In June 2017, Apple Inc. issued a $1 billion green bond (the “2017 Green Bond”). Proceeds from this green 
bond were allocated to environmental projects across its global business divisions and operations that align 
with the company’s three environmental priorities: 
1. Reducing its impact on climate change by using renewable energy sources and driving energy 
efficiency in its facilities, products and supply chain; 
2. Pioneering the use of greener materials in its products and processes; and, 
3. Conserving resources. 
Apple Inc. engaged Sustainalytics to conduct a review of the 28 projects to which proceeds were allocated 
from the 2017 Green Bond to assess whether the projects met the Use of Proceeds Eligibility Criteria and the 
Key Performance Indicators outlined in the Green Bond Framework and below in Tables 1 and 2. Of the 28 
projects to which proceeds were allocated from the 2017 Green Bond, 25 received allocations within the 2018 
fiscal year. This review follows a previous review, conducted by Sustainalytics in February 2018. 
 
Evaluation Criteria 
Sustainalytics evaluated the projects to which funds from the 2017 Green Bond were allocated based on 
whether the projects: 
 
1. Met the Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria outlined in the Green Bond Framework; and 
2. Reported on at least one of the Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) outlined in the Green Bond 
Framework. 
 
Table 1 lists the Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria, while Table 2 lists the associated KPIs. 
Table 1: Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria 
Use of Proceeds Eligibility Criteria 
1. Renewable 
Energy 
Expenditures related to the development of new and ongoing renewable energy 
projects to reduce emissions in Apple’s corporate facilities and supply chain, 
including solar and wind projects, or the associated energy storage solutions  
2. Green Building Expenditures related to projects that have received within the last three years, or are 
expected to receive, certification of LEED Gold or Platinum, or BREEAM Very Good, 
Excellent, or Outstanding “green building” standards, or other regional green building 
standards.  
3. Environmental 
Design 
Expenditures related to the implementation of environmental design elements for 
new or ongoing building developments, such as high performance mechanicals 
systems, natural ventilation, on-site renewable energy and high performance lighting 
systems.  
4. Energy 
Efficiency 
Expenditures related to energy efficiency projects and technologies for Apple’s 
corporate facilities, products, or supply chain, such as heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning systems upgrades, lighting retrofits, and energy monitors and controls.  
5. Water 
Efficiency 
Expenditures related to water efficiency, water conservation, and water quality 
projects and technologies for Apple’s corporate facilities, products, or supply chain, 
such as upgrades to water efficient fixtures and water efficient irrigation and 
increased use of recycled water.  
