9Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
Molded Fiber Tooling
When it comes to our packaging, we are continually looking for ways to 
improve the materials we use, with the goal of using 100 percent recycled 
and renewable materials. Until recently, we relied on a petroleum-based 
plastic, HIPS, for the product support trays in Apple Watch, iPad, and 
iPhone packaging, critical for protecting our products. Unfortunately, 
HIPS is not easily recycled and can last for years if released into the 
environment. 
Given these environmental impacts, we have been working to transition 
our product trays from plastics to molded fiber, a renewable material that 
is easily recycled within most municipalities’ paper recycling schemes. 
Our performance and aesthetic standards are extremely high, and while 
HIPS is extremely versatile, traditional molded fiber revealed technical 
challenges that needed to be overcome to adapt it for our use. Before 
each product release, we invested in research and development tooling 
to design the molded fiber for optimal strength and cosmetic properties. 
This process took molded fiber to the extreme levels of its performance 
and allowed it to be used in the critical product support trays. Molded 
fiber has since replaced the plastic trays in all new Apple Watch, iPad, 
and iPhone packaging. For iPhone, the molded fiber product tray design 
reduced plastic use in packaging by more than 45 percent. Green bond 
funds were allocated to molded fiber tooling for multiple released and 
future products, including the iPhone Xs and Xr, and contributed to a 
reduction in the amount of HIPS used in retail packaging by 2100 metric 
tons in 2018.
Retail Stores: Responsibly Sourced Wood
Our search for better materials is not limited to our products and 
packaging, but extends to our stores as well. Our oak tables are a 
signature feature in Apple Stores, and they integrate sophisticated 
electrical wiring to support and connect the many different Apple 
products on display. This past year we began looking beyond the 
aesthetics and function of the tables, into the way the wood materials 
were sourced. We committed to sourcing only Forest Stewardship  
Council (FSC) certified materials for all tables in all new retail stores—
hundreds of tables in 2018 alone. FSC certifies only wood made  
from forests that protect water resources, promote biodiversity, and 
enhance the lives of workers and local communities. But certification 
of the forest is only the first step in a complex supply chain of mills, 
wood product manufacturers, and distributors. That’s why FSC requires 
documentation tracing wood products back to the forests in which  
they were grown, so that buyers can be sure they are purchasing 
responsibly sourced products. 
