5Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
Apple Champs-Élysées is expected to receive a BREEAM “Very Good” green building rating. Environmental features 
include energy-efficient lighting, a rainwater collection system, and responsibly sourced materials.
Featured Projects
What follows are a few examples of the projects to which Apple allocated 
green bond funds in fiscal year 2018. A full list of projects with detailed 
descriptions and key performance indicators was provided to Sustainalytics 
for their second-party review. (The Sustainalytics Review is included in the 
Appendix of this report.)
Apple Champs-Élysées
With our new retail location on the Champs-Élysées, Apple pays tribute  
to Paris’s rich history and creativity—while also staying true to our 
commitment to the environment. The renovation is expected to receive  
a rating of “Very Good” from BREEAM, an internationally recognized  
green building standard. Various environmental design features allowed  
us to achieve this rating, including use of sustainable materials like wood 
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council for all tables and wall-mounted 
merchandising units. The site also features a rainwater collection system 
that is estimated to reduce the use of municipal potable water by 15 percent 
each year. The collection system can collect up to 1,800 gallons of water 
a day for use in bathrooms and for watering interior trees and green walls. 
To conserve energy, 80 percent of internal lamps were replaced with LED 
fixtures and more than 25 percent of the floor area uses occupancy sensors 
for lighting. We installed new windows with high-performance glazing and 
a free cooling HVAC system to reduce the energy used to keep the building 
cool. And to support sustainable transportation, the building offers electric 
vehicle charging points as well as facilities and storage for cyclists. And as 
with all of Apple’s global facilities, Apple sources 100 percent renewable 
energy to cover its electricity use at Apple Champs-Élysées, supported in 
part by photovoltaic panels installed on the rooftop.
