6Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
These environmental features were installed while preserving historic 
features of the site, including the elegant inner courtyard where Today 
at Apple sessions are now hosted. And the space embodies Apple’s 
environmental commitment by connecting people to nature through 
biophilic design. There is natural light not only in the retail space, but 
also in offices and break rooms. Planted trees and green wall installations 
integrate living systems indoors. And stone sourced locally from Paris 
and Burgundy regions further highlight nature in the space.
Distributed Rooftop Solar in Japan
In 2018, we announced that all of Apple’s global facilities were powered 
by 100 percent renewable energy. To maintain that achievement and 
expand the use of renewable energy in Apple’s supply chain, we continue 
to invest in renewable energy around the world, including in Japan. Our 
investment contributed to the installation of over 600 solar PV rooftop 
systems, with a combined capacity of 24.4 MW, to address emissions 
from Apple’s operations in Japan, as well as upstream manufacturing 
emissions. By aggregating dispersed rooftops, projects like these help 
to make solar PV more feasible in a space-constrained country, and help 
scale projects for investors like Apple. Now operational, the projects 
will produce approximately 42,000 MWh of renewable energy annually, 
avoiding more than 24,800 metric tons of CO2e emissions—enough 
energy to power almost 8,000 Japanese homes for a year.4
Prineville Aquifer Storage and Recovery
In Prineville, Oregon, we created a water supply solution to meet the 
needs of Apple’s local data center and the broader community for years 
to come. We partnered with the City of Prineville to build an Aquifer 
Storage and Recovery (ASR) system, which uses natural underground 
spaces to cost-effectively store water throughout the year for use in 
peak demand months. This is especially important in Prineville, where 
local water demand can be up to four times higher in the summer than 
in the winter. With a storage capacity of up to 180 million gallons—
significantly more than we use for our data center—the ASR system also 
helps mitigate future climate-related risks of water shortages. This effort 
exemplifies the communitywide value that can come from collaborative 
and strategic water partnerships.
