13Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
Annual Review  
Apple Inc. 2017 Green Bond  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Key Performance Indicators 
Key Performance Indicators 
Green Buildings • Total floor area of eligible green building space (square feet)  
Renewable Energy • Renewable energy installed capacity (kW or MW)  
• Energy produced from renewable sources (kWh or MWh)  
• GHG emissions avoided (in metric tons CO2e)  
Energy Efficiency  • Energy saved aggregate (kWh or therms)  
• GHG emissions avoided from retrofits (tons CO2e)  
Water • Water use savings (gallons)  
Waste • Waste diverted from landfills (tons)  
• Waste recycled or composted (tons) 
Resource Use • Bio-based material use (% of material in product) 
• Recycled content use (% material in product)  
 
 
Issuing Entity’s Responsibility 
Apple Inc. is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details of the 
projects that have been funded, including descriptions of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, 
and project impacts. 
 
 
Independence and Quality Control 
Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, 
conducted the verification of Apple Inc.’s 2017 Green Bond Use of Proceeds. The work undertaken as part of 
this engagement included collection of documentation from Apple Inc. employees and review of 
documentation to verify conformance with the 2017 Green Bond Framework. 
 
Sustainalytics has relied on the information and the facts presented by Apple Inc. with respect to the 
Nominated Projects. Sustainalytics is not responsible nor shall it be held liable if any of the opinions, findings, 
or conclusions it has set forth herein are not correct due to incorrect or incomplete data provided by Apple 
Inc. 
 
Sustainalytics made all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process and 
enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to provide oversight over the assessment of the review. 
 
 
6. Material 
Conservation 
Expenditures related to advancing Apple’s goal of a closed loop supply chain that 
focuses on the entire life cycle of Apple’s products, such as projects that improve 
material efficiency, increase the use of sustainably sourced materials like bio-based 
plastics, recycled aluminum or responsibly sourced paper, create new sources of 
these more sustainable materials, and enhance material recovery from Apple’s 
products at the end of their life cycles.  
7. Greener 
Materials 
Expenditures related to projects that facilitate the use of materials that are safer for 
the environment and human health, such as continued elimination of toxic 
substances commonly used in the industry in accordance with Apple’s Regulated 
Substances Specification (available at http://www.apple.com/environment/reports/).  
