14Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
Annual Review  
Apple Inc. 2017 Green Bond  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Conclusion 
Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted,1 nothing has come to Sustainalytics’ attention that 
causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the reviewed bond projects, to which proceeds from the 
2017 Green Bond were allocated, are not in conformance with the Use of Proceeds and Reporting Criteria 
outlined in the Apple Inc. Green Bond Framework. Apple Inc. has disclosed to Sustainalytics that the 
proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond were fully allocated as of the end of Apple’s 2018 fiscal year (September 
29, 2018). 
 
 
Detailed Findings 
 
Table 3: Detailed Findings 
Eligibility Criteria Procedure Performed Factual Findings Error or 
Exceptions 
Identified 
Use of Proceeds 
Criteria 
Verification of the 28 projects to 
which Apple allocated proceeds from 
the 2017 Green Bond to determine if 
the projects aligned with the Use of 
Proceeds Criteria outlined in the 
Green Bond Framework and above in 
Table 1. 
All 28 of the reviewed 
projects  
aligned with the Use of 
Proceeds criteria. 
None 
Reporting Criteria Verification of the 28 projects to 
which Apple allocated proceeds from 
the 2017 Green Bond to determine if 
their reported environmental benefits 
aligned with the KPIs outlined in the 
Green Bond Framework and above in 
Table 2. Refer to Appendix 1 for a 
breakdown of the environmental 
impact reported by category. 
19 of the reviewed 
projects reported at 
least one KPI per Use of 
Proceeds criteria. The 
nine outstanding 
projects do not have 
relevant reporting 
requirements. 
None 
  
                                                 
1 Sustainalytics’ limited assurance process includes reviewing the documentation relating to the details of the projects that have been funded, 
including description of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, and project impacts, which were provided by Apple Inc. Apple Inc. is 
responsible for providing accurate information. Sustainalytics has not conducted on-site visits to projects. 
