16Annual Green Bond Impact Report  |  2018 Update
Annual Review  
Apple Inc. 2017 Green Bond  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Disclaimer 
© Sustainalytics 2019. All rights reserved. 
The intellectual property rights to this Second-Party Opinion (the “Opinion”) are vested exclusively in 
Sustainalytics. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing by Sustainalytics, no part of this Opinion may 
be reproduced, disseminated, comingled, used to create derivative works, furnished in any manner, made 
available to third parties or published, parts hereof or the information contained herein in any form or in any 
manner, be it electronically, mechanically, through photocopies or recordings, nor publicly released without 
the “Green Bond Framework” in conjunction with which this Opinion has been developed. 
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to provide objective information on why the analyzed bond is 
considered sustainable and responsible, and is intended for investors in general, and not for a specific 
investor in particular. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the 
use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, the information is provided “as is” and, 
therefore Sustainalytics does not warrant that the information presented in this Opinion is complete, 
accurate or up to date, nor assumes any responsibility for errors or omissions. Any reference to third party 
names is for appropriate acknowledgement of their ownership and does not constitute a sponsorship or 
endorsement by such owner. 
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. 
Furthermore, nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as an investment advice (as defined in the 
applicable jurisdiction), nor be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance 
and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of 
proceeds.  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments’ compliance, implementation and 
monitoring.  
  
