When you see this icon you will find more 
information on another page or Barclays report
Barclays PLC Strategic Report 2018
An overview of our 2018 performance, a focus on our 
strategic direction, and a review of the businesses 
underpinning our strategy.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018
A detailed review of Barclays 2018 performance with 
disclosures that provide useful insight and go beyond 
reporting requirements.
Barclays PLC Environmental Social 
Governance (ESG) Report 2018
Our ESG strategic priorities and performance, reported 
against a range of quantitative and qualitative indicators.
Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Disclosures 2018
A summary of our risk profile, its interaction with the 
Group’s risk appetite, and risk management.
Barclays PLC Country Snapshot 2018
An overview of our tax contribution country by country 
as well as our broader approach to tax, including our UK 
tax strategy.
When you see this icon you will find more 
information online
Our common Purpose is 
‘Creating opportunities to 
rise’. We are a company of 
opportunity makers working 
together to help people 
rise – customers, clients, 
colleagues and society.
Reporting
The Environmental Social Governance (ESG) Report provides additional information on key  
non-financial topics and forms part of the Barclays PLC Annual Report suite.  
This report should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report at home.barclays/annualreport.
The report has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initative (GRI) Standards (Core 
option). Further details on the requirements can be found in our 2018 GRI Content Index.
The Environmental Social Governance Framework sets out the basis on which  
key metrics were prepared. These are available at home.barclays/esg 
Assurance
KPMG LLP undertook a limited assurance engagement over selected performance information  
in this report. Refer to their statement on page 68.
For further information and a fuller understanding 
of the results and the state of affairs of the Group, 
please refer to the full Barclays PLC Annual Report 
2018 suite of documents available at  
home.barclays.com/annualreport
