62 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Investing in our communities
Society
Measuring impact
We have worked with EY to develop a robust 
internal framework to measure the societal 
and commercial impact of our Barclays UK 
Citizenship programmes. This framework will 
allow us to monitor return on investment 
through consistent data collection and 
analysis, for both existing and future 
Citizenship initiatives. 
Digital empowerment
Barclays partners on a number of employability 
programmes across the regions we operate in 
addition to Barclays’ own Digital Wings and 
Digital Eagles upskilling programmes. For more 
details on all our employability programmes, 
please see home.barclays/citizenship.
Digital Eagles: Our network of Digital Eagles 
help our colleagues, customers and the 
communities in which we work develop their 
digital skills. In 2018 we extended the network 
into universities across the country, recruiting 
students as Digital Eagles to help expand our 
reach and provide vital experience for the 
students. 
We’ve built relationships with several public-
sector organisations to support them with the 
set up their own network of digital champions. 
We also launched our first ever Code 
Playground live via the Barclays UK YouTube 
channel. Over 56,000 children across 570 UK 
schools have learnt valuable coding skills at 
our Code Playground events.
Digital Wings: Barclays Digital Wings is a 
learning platform for digital education 
available for free, online or via an app. We 
work with industry experts to bring new 
content on a quarterly basis, with this year’s 
modules including topics such as API, Open 
Banking and how to “Innovate like a start-up”. 
We also created 15 unique company landing 
pages for those who partner with Digital 
Wings, enabling them to promote the content 
to their colleagues and track their 
engagement with the platform.
See page 53 for more detail on colleague 
engagement through volunteering.
Financial health and education
Barclays seeks to improve the financial health 
and education of the communities we serve. 
We do this by leveraging our expertise to create 
and provide learning and support tools to help 
consumers to improve their financial health.
For example, in 2018 we launched our online 
Credit Builder tool, designed to help 
consumers and our customers understand 
how to improve their credit ratings. We also 
run large scale campaigns to educate the 
public on preventing fraud and scams. For 
more information on our work on financial 
health see page 43.
Investment in community
Barclays plays a broader role in the 
communities in which we live and work beyond 
what we deliver through our core business 
activities. We support communities by investing 
money, and skills in partnerships with 
respected and relevant non-governmental 
organisations, charities and social enterprises. 
In 2018, Barclays invested £34.8million in our 
communities globally (2017: £42.1million).
In calculating the investment in the
community value, the LBG (London
Benchmarking Group) methodology has
been followed. 
Monetised volunteering hours is calculated
using self-reported time volunteered by
colleagues during the working day. Data is
sourced from internal reporting systems
including several manual sources and may
not cover all relevant activity. We have
applied subjective assessment to determine
eligible volunteer work hours.
Read more about our community investment 
programmes at home.barclays.com/citizenship/
supporting-communities/our-programmes.html
Global investment in 
our communities 
£34.8m
  Cash 80.5%
  Management costs 10.3%
  Monetised working hours 9.2%
Charitable giving
Barclays supports colleagues who choose to 
fundraise for the causes they are passionate 
about, through our Matched Fundraising 
programme. In 2018, we supported over 
11,500 colleagues globally to fundraise for 
their chosen charities, with a total of 
£22.1raised for charities around the world.
We further supported 15,000 colleagues to 
donate via our Payroll Giving programme, 
which saw us match a total of £1.1m in 2018.
See page 53 for more detail on colleague 
engagement through volunteering.
Note 
In calculating the investment in the community value, the LBG (London Benchmarking Group) methodology has been followed. Therefore, the cost of Citizenship programmes 
delivering Social Innovation that do not qualify under LBG guidelines have been excluded from the calculation. Monetised volunteering hours is calculated using self-reported time 
volunteered by colleagues during the working day. Data is sourced from internal reporting systems including several manual sources and may not cover all relevant activity. We have 
applied subjective assessment to determine eligible volunteer work hours.
