46 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Providing sustainable finance solutions
Customers and clients
Key to this success is Barclays Green Banking 
Council. The Green Banking Council provides 
the platform to develop and coordinate 
commercial propositions which support 
customers and clients on their transition 
to a low-carbon future.
In 2018 we were the first major UK Bank to 
launch a Green Mortgage product. The 
Barclays Green Home Mortgage offers 
homebuyers lower interest rates for new build 
properties meeting minimum energy 
efficiency requirements. This responds directly 
to the Government’s Green Finance Taskforce 
recommendation to support Clean Growth in 
the mortgage market and has been recognised 
by the Energy and Clean Growth Minister.
Barclays has also launched Green Trade loans 
to support the green working capital needs of 
clients, from procurement through to final sale 
of goods.
Expanding our Green Product suite enables us 
to seize the opportunities in the market, while 
deploying our core financial service expertise 
to tackle key climate and social challenges.
Social Impact Banking 
In 2018, with support from our Social Innovation 
Facility (see page 64), Barclays established the 
Social Impact Banking group. The Social Impact 
Banking group identifies early-stage positive-
impact companies and advises them on growing 
their businesses. Many industries provide 
opportunities for Barclays to provide support, 
such as sustainable agriculture, recycling, energy 
storage, electric transportation and financial 
services. A second focus of the group is building 
relationships with sustainability-focused 
investors across asset classes to better 
understand their needs and connect them with 
potential investments.
Research
Barclays created a new Sustainable and 
Thematic Research team within our Equity 
Research business to lead our efforts in 
providing innovative research for investors 
with an ESG or thematic focus. The team has 
launched a series of global research reports 
which analyse long term, disruptive trends 
and which collaborate with sector analysts 
to identify the impacts of these trends across 
industries and sectors. In the future, this team 
will also be supporting integration of ESG 
analysis across our Equity Research coverage.
Our Impact Series reports explored the social 
impact of economic, demographic and 
disruptive changes affecting markets, sectors 
and society at large. The latest, and fourth, 
report explored the case for sustainable bond 
investing and sought to support the decision-
making processes of the growing population of 
investors who wish to incorporate sustainable 
investing strategies in their portfolios. 
Treasury Green  
Bond portfolio
Green Bond portfolio
2018 £2.3bn
2017 £1.56bn
2016 £1bn
Barclays remains committed to the Green 
Bond market as an investor and has continued 
to expand its Green Bond portfolio across up 
to 20 investment grade issuers. In 2018 the 
portfolio has seen strong growth from the 
sovereign sector, with notable new 
investments in Belgian and Irish green 
government bonds issued this year. We note 
that a number of bonds issued in past years 
focused heavily on renewable energy and 
energy efficiency projects. In 2018 we saw 
more issuance, including those from 
sovereign issuers, with increased focus on 
clean mass transport and water management.
Barclays has undertaken thorough reviews 
to establish the social and environmental 
credentials of the proposed investment 
portfolio, including engaging with the 
issuers and also the leading NGO in this 
area, Climate Bonds Initiative.
Based on issuer reporting we estimate that 
the green bond investment portfolio helps 
avoid 2.9m tonnes of CO2 per annum.
a
Treasury | Portfolio Impact
Impact by Sector
1
2
3
4
5
%
1 Renewable energy 
and energy efficiency 57
2 Transport 20
3 Water and waste 
management 11
4 Other 10
5 Agriculture, land 
use and forestry 2
Impact by Region
1
2
3 4
%
1 Europe 72
2 Asia 23
3 South America 5
4 Africa 1
Green Bond issuance 
and impact update
In November 2017 Barclays was the first 
UK bank using UK assets to successfully 
price and issue a 0.625% €500m green 
bond. At issuance the proceeds were to be 
allocated to finance and refinance Barclays 
residential mortgages on properties in 
England and Wales which are in the top 
15% of the lowest carbon intensive 
buildings in these countries, based on 
estimated energy efficiency, as identified 
in Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) 
data published by the UK Government.
As at 31 December 2018, Barclays’ green 
bond pool contained 1,626 mortgage loans 
for residential properties with a nominal 
value of £442.2m. The average carbon 
intensity for Barclays allocated Eligible 
Mortgage Asset portfolio is 15.89KgCO2/
m2, almost 60% lower than the EPC dataset 
average of 40.4 KgCO2/m
2, with the 
portfolio generating an annual carbon 
saving of almost 5,174 tonnes CO2 or 10.34 
tonnes of CO2 emissions per every 
€1 million of bond proceeds allocated.
Further information can be found in the 
second annual Green Bond Investor Report 
home.barclays/barclays-investor-relations/
treasury-and-capital/green-bonds
Carbon intensity of Eligible Mortgage 
Asset portfolio (kgCO2/m
2/year)
1
2
3
%
1 0-9.99 (10.15%)
2 10-19.99  (63.47%)
3 20-24.8  (26.38%)
Geographical distribution of  
Eligible Mortgage Asset portfolio
East Anglia 9.10%
East Midlands 4.92%
Greater London 25.28%
North 1.97%
North West 4.61%
South East 36.41%
South West 7.13%
Wales 1.72%
West Midlands 5.11%
Yorkshire and 
Humberside
3.75%
Note 
a Figures are based on data published by issuers of green bonds. As part of their yearly disclosure exercise and in line 
with the green bonds principles, every issuer will publish an impact report. The portfolio impact represents the 
aggregation across all relevant impact reports of issuers from whom we hold green bonds in our portfolio. These 
numbers are prorated to reflect the size of our holding relative to the total green bond programme of the issuer.
