home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 43
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Customer vulnerability
This year has seen more positive progress in 
ensuring we continue to support older, disabled 
or potentially vulnerable customers. A number 
of new services were launched including: the 
ability for deaf customers to contact us by 
telephone with the assistance of a lip speaker; 
an online support page for people experiencing 
mental health concerns; participation in the 
industry-level Death Notification Service; and 
‘Later life’ & ‘Living with illness or disability’. 
Moments available online covering fraud & 
scams awareness and accessible services.
Barclays has launched a new feature for 
customers within its mobile banking app giving 
customers the ability to ‘turn off ’ spending 
with certain types of retailers including 
gambling, premium rate websites and phone 
lines and restaurants, takeaways, pubs and 
bars. Working with a range of advisors such as 
the Money Advice Trust, and building on 
published evidence from organisations such as 
the Money and Mental Health Policy Institute, 
we identified those with mental health issues, 
addictions, and those who rely on carers or a 
guardian as customers who would particularly 
benefit from ways to stay in control of their 
finances. The feature will however help all 
customers take greater control over where their 
money can be spent, as well as making them 
less vulnerable to fraud and scams.
Fraud and scams
In 2018 and as part of our continuous effort to 
tackle fraud and scams we expanded our tools 
and activities to include a call verification tool 
to help combat phone call-based scams. This 
allows customers to use their app or online 
banking to verify if a call from Barclays is 
genuine. We have also launched further 
education campaigns to raise awareness on 
sharing personal information on social media 
and of romance scams as part of our Financial 
and Digital empowerment programmes. 
Barclaycard Fraud Fighter Tool
Barclaycard Fraud Fighter is a digital 
interactive tool to help customers understand 
where they may be vulnerable and how they 
can protect themselves. The tool gives 
customers personalised fraud prevention tips 
and an overall ‘fraud safe’ score. Since its 
launch at the end of 2017 over 500,000 
customers have engaged with the tool.
Engaging with consumer bodies
Barclays engages extensively with leading 
consumer organisations to understand the 
challenges consumers face and bring insight 
and challenge into the bank. We have developed 
senior and working level relationships with key 
consumer groups and representatives and have 
a dedicated function to manage this 
engagement. Some of the leading issues that 
we are talking to consumer groups about are 
vulnerable customers, access to banking, 
fraud and keeping our customers safe. We are 
also engaged on the proposed introduction of 
a Statutory Breathing Space for our customers 
who find themselves in problem debt, a 
long-standing policy ask of debt charities. In 
addition we work closely with the free debt 
advice sector, and have collaborated with 
other financial services representatives and 
the main debt advice charities to support 
development in this sector, with the aim of 
improving outcomes for our customers. 
Right: From audio cash machines to contactless 
wristbands, Kathryn Townsend, Barclays UK’s Head of 
Customer and Client Accessibility, understands there 
is “a huge commercial and moral imperative” to 
creating services that are easily accessible to all, and 
ensures the bank remains committed to this. To see 
the full story refer to https://home.barclays/
news/2018/11/insights--kathryn-townsend/
Over 40% 
of our customers engage with us digitally
Over 20% 
of our customers are digital only
Over 7m 
active mobile banking users
