home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 59
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Note 
a un.org/sustainabledevelopment/globalpartnerships/
Targeted Goals
In 2017, we conducted a mapping exercise of 
the bank’s activities against the Goals to 
understand our relevant activity. Building on 
this approach in 2018, we magnified our 
operational and programmatic focus on two 
SDGs – Goals 8 and 13. These were identified 
as key areas that we can drive forward 
through our own business model, as well as 
through our community programmes and 
partnerships.
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 8 aims to promote inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, in order to 
achieve full and productive employment and 
decent work for all. Acknowledging the broad 
reach of Goal 8, there are numerous ways in 
which Barclays’ activity connects to the Goal’s 
underlying targets. We are approaching this in 
particular through our community 
programmes focused on skills development 
and access to meaningful work opportunities.
You can learn more about our activities and 
our commitment to Goal 8 here:
?? Access to employment – (LifeSkills and 
Connect with Work programmes) – see 
page 60
?? Sustainable innovation and scale-up 
programmes – see page 63
?? Access to financial and digital 
empowerment – see page 62
?? Broader economic contributions – see page 
65
Recognising SDG Target 8.7 under Goal 8 
regarding the eradication of forced labour, 
Barclays maintains a position on combating 
the risk of modern slavery or human 
trafficking in our supply chains or in any part 
of our business. See page 22 for more 
information on our approach.
SDG 13: Climate Action
Goal 13 calls for urgent action to combat 
climate change and its impacts through 
mitigation, resilience and adaption, and policy 
and strategic planning.
See the following for details of Barclays’ work 
towards Goal 13:
?? Barclays’ TCFD disclosure – see page 28
?? Social and environmental risk management 
– see page 22
?? Barclays’ Energy and Climate Change 
statement – see page 25
?? Barclays’ green products – see page 45
?? Our direct carbon footprint – see page 36
Partnerships for the Goals - Goal 17
It is recognised that a successful sustainable 
development agenda requires partnerships 
between governments, the private sector and 
civil societya. Barclays understands the need to 
take a joined-up and multidisciplinary 
approach towards our own activities 
connected to the Goals. We work with a 
number of organisations to partner on 
projects, provide support, and share expertise 
including industry initiatives, academic 
institutions and Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs).
See page 46 for details of Barclays’ 
collaboration with global initiatives and page 
66 for signatories and memberships.
Looking ahead to 2030
We aim to continue to engage with 
stakeholders, peers and across industries to 
assess how we can build on our current work 
related to the Goals. This involves assessing 
ways we can be more impactful in the areas 
where the business can have the most 
influence and where there is a collective need.
Above: students participating in our Connect with 
Work programme developed in partnership with 
Per Scholas in the US.
