home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 61
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
A demand-led approach
Supporting sectors with a high demand  
for new talent
In the Americas, Barclays’ Connect with 
Work is helping to address the shortage of 
skilled cybersecurity professionals. Through 
our partnership with Per Scholas, 
colleagues have co-designed a 17-week full 
time cybersecurity training programme to 
upskill people to prepare for jobs in this 
rapidly expanding area of technology. The 
programme supports New Yorkers from 
underrepresented communities into 
full-time employment at a variety of 
companies, including Barclays.
More than 80% of graduates are 
successfully placed into work within 4 
months of completing the training 
programme, including over 50 hired as 
apprentices and interns at Barclays. 
Delivering 
deep impact 
Supporting people 
to achieve their  
career ambitions 
In India, Barclays’ 
Connect with Work works with young 
people in academic institutions from 
disadvantaged sections of society. These 
young people are digitally savvy but often 
lack the soft skills needed to secure 
employment.
Shreya studied at NBN Sinhgad School of 
Engineering, Pune, India, and was under 
pressure to get a job immediately after 
graduation. “I am ambitious and knew 
what I was capable of achieving but 
didn’t know where to start to achieve my 
goals,” she said. “The interactive training 
provided by Barclays’ Connect with Work 
enabled me to develop my confidence and 
interview skills which helped me to 
secure an Associate Software Engineer 
role at Accenture.”
Engaging hundreds of businesses
Supporting companies to build a more 
diverse workforce
Barclays’ Connect with Work offers a 
pragmatic solution to the challenges set out 
by Barclays’ clients in a manner that has 
broader societal benefits. Addressing the 
skills gap, it connects businesses with 
people in our communities – some of 
whom may be disconnected from the 
traditional labour market – and reduces the 
amount of time absorbed by the 
recruitment process.  
In 2018, Barclays partnered with Co-op on a 
series of bespoke employability workshops. 
Rachael, Diversity & Inclusion Lead, Co-op, 
commented: “This programme gives us the 
opportunity to reach further and engage 
with young people who wouldn’t ordinarily 
have the confidence to apply through the 
usual channels.” 
Supported by volunteers from Barclays and 
The Prince’s Trust, all of the individuals that 
completed the programme went on to be 
employed by Co-op. One participant 
commented: “I suffered from a number of 
health issues and had been unable to find 
employment. Connect with Work has 
provided me with job-specific skills and an 
opportunity to gain sustainable 
employment with a fantastic employer.”
Connect with Work
Barclays Connect with Work is a unique 
employability programme that provides 
people, from often overlooked communitites, 
with work skills and connects them to 
businesses that are recruiting, including 
Barclays clients and suppliers.
The programme works with people who want 
to get into work but, for a number of reasons, 
face challenges such as a lack of experience or 
confidence, fewer educational qualifications, 
care requirements or disabilities. It takes a 
demand-led approach which means we focus 
on skills development where there are 
significant job opportunities.
Barclays uses its network, expertise and scale 
along with the workforce development focus 
of its charity partners to deliver a programme 
that addresses the needs of both groups. We 
measure our success on the extent to which 
the programme gives businesses the 
opportunity to support their commercial 
ambitions – providing a pipeline of new, 
diverse talent – and evidence of a genuine, 
meaningful and lasting impact on people’s 
lives both immediately and over time. 
For more information, please see: s3.
amazonaws.com/perscholas/partner/
barclays_per_scholas_defending_the_
digital_frontier.pdf
