18 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Building a positive conduct and values-based culture
Company
Financial Crime 
Barclays is committed to conducting its 
global activities with integrity. We will not 
tolerate any deliberate breach of financial 
crime laws and regulations (e.g. bribery, 
corruption, money laundering/terrorist 
financing, sanctions and tax evasion 
facilitation) in the course of our business and 
the transactions we undertake.
The Barclays Financial Crime Policy and 
related standards:
?? set out the minimum requirements which 
must be complied with by all Barclays 
Group businesses and legal entities
?? are endorsed by the Barclays Board of 
Directors and apply to all businesses, 
functions and geographies globally and 
covers 100% of Barclays’ operations
?? include directions on how to report 
suspicious activity internally and to 
relevant law enforcement authorities as 
and when required.
Barclays conducts comprehensive financial 
crime risk assessments on a regular basis 
(minimum annually), incorporating bribery 
and corruption, money laundering, sanctions 
and tax evasion facilitation. This covers all 
operations globally, divided into 86 
assessment units along business, functional 
and geographical lines. The risk assessment 
is overseen by the Financial Crime Team 
which monitors the completion of action 
plans to mitigate key risks identified.
We have a comprehensive global financial 
crime training programme which includes 
mandatory general awareness training 
delivered via the Barclays learning 
management system. This training is further 
supplemented by role-specific enhanced 
financial crime training (online, paper-based 
or face to face) for areas of our business 
where we have identified increased financial 
crime risks. 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
We aspire to run our business in an open 
and transparent manner and are committed 
to conducting our global activities with 
integrity. We will not tolerate any deliberate 
breach of anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) 
laws and regulations. Our financial crime 
policy, ABC-related standards, procedures 
and training are designed to ensure 
compliance with all applicable anti-bribery 
laws in countries in which we operate. The 
ABC-related standards focus on five key risk 
areas, namely: employment and work 
opportunity; expenditure; introducers; third 
parties and strategic transactions.
Anti-Money Laundering
Money laundering and terrorist financing 
have been identified as major threats to 
Barclays and the international financial 
services community. Barclays Financial Crime 
Policy and the four associated Anti-money 
laundering (AML) Standards are designed to 
ensure that all Barclays businesses and legal 
entities comply with the requirements and 
obligations set out in UK, EU and local 
legislation, regulations, rules and industry 
guidance for the financial services sector, 
including the need to have adequate systems 
and controls in place to mitigate the risk of 
the firm being used to facilitate financial 
crime. Barclays AML Standards focus on four 
key risk areas: customer lifecycle; 
correspondent relationships; politically 
exposed persons; and wire transfers.
Anti-Tax Evasion Facilitation
We take a zero-tolerance approach to 
deliberate facilitation of tax evasion in any 
country and have procedures in place to 
prevent it. We also expect the same from our 
agents and third parties providing services 
for or on our behalf. We comply with the UK 
Criminal Finances Act 2017 and all 
applicable tax evasion/tax evasion 
facilitation laws wherever we do business. 
We have an Anti-Tax Evasion Facilitation 
Standard which addresses the risks 
associated with customers, employees 
and third parties acting for or on behalf 
of Barclays.
Sanctions
Sanctions are restrictions on activity with 
targeted countries, governments, entities, 
individuals and industries that are imposed 
by bodies such as the United Nations (UN), 
the European Union (EU), individual 
countries or groups of countries. The 
Barclays Financial Crime Policy and the 
associated Sanctions Standard are designed 
to ensure that:
?? Barclays and its employees know how to 
identify and manage the risks associated 
with sanctions, including the risk of 
Barclays’ products being used to 
contravene sanctions 
?? All Barclays businesses and legal entities 
comply with applicable sanctions laws in 
every jurisdiction in which we operate.
The Barclays policy positions on  
financial crime can be found at:  
home.barclays/citizenship/our-reporting-
and-policy-positions/
