64 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Social Innovation Facility
Since the launch of Barclays’ Social Innovation 
Facility (SIF) in 2012, the initiative has been 
proactively investing in new products and 
services that allow Barclays to generate both 
commercial and social value. The SIF fosters a 
culture of intrapreneurship at Barclays and 
makes funding, resources and support 
available to teams across the bank to develop, 
test and scale new business propositions that 
tackle social and environmental challenges.
With support from the SIF, in 2018, Barclays 
established the Social Impact Banking group 
in response to a growing focus on 
sustainability and social impact from investors 
and corporations. See page 46 for further 
information.
SIF also supported the launch of the Barclays 
Impact Series research reports, which are 
designed to explore the impact of economic, 
demographic, and disruptive changes on 
markets, sectors and society at large. The most 
recent report published in October 2018, The 
case for sustainable bond investing 
strengthens, provides further data-driven 
evidence that ESG investing over the past 
several years led to incremental financial 
returns in broad credit markets. Prior to that, a 
report entitled Robots at the gate: Humans and 
technology at work, authored by members of 
the Macro Research team, argues that robotics 
and Artificial Intelligence do not portend a 
jobless future as many fear. It explores the 
drivers behind the current debate around the 
future of work, the ways technology is 
automating work previously done by humans, 
and the macroeconomic implications for 
societies today and for years to come.
See home.barclays/citizenship for more 
information on our SIF programme.
See page 45 for details of our sustainability-
linked credit facility, created with support from 
SIF.
Big Issue Invest
Launched in October, the Power Up Midlands 
programme is an innovative partnership 
between Big Issue Invest and Barclays UK. 
Following a competitive application process, 
14 impactful social and community 
businesses from across the Midlands have 
joined the programme. In order to support the 
sustainable growth of the organisations and 
maximise their local impact, Barclays and Big 
Issue Invest will provide business development 
training and mentoring, in addition to 
potential investment in 2019.
Scale Up initiative
Barclays Scale Up, delivered by Cambridge 
Judge Business School, is a bespoke 
programme aimed at supporting the growth 
of ambitious small to medium sized social 
ventures, and helping them address the core 
challenges their founders and management 
teams face in scaling.
Following a national competition, Barclays has 
funded 32 scholarships for ambitious social 
entrepreneurs to join the programme in 2018.
Rise, created by Barclays
Known as the #homeoffintech, Rise, created 
by Barclays, is a global community of the 
world’s top innovators working together with 
Barclays’ colleagues, partners and clients, to 
create the future of financial services. Rise 
operates state-of-the-art workspaces in key 
cities across the world, including London, New 
York, Tel Aviv and Mumbai.
Technology companies can apply to make 
Rise their home, and as a member, get access 
to a diverse programme of training, 
workshops and events, as well as 
opportunities to connect into our Barclays 
network of colleagues, clients, partners, 
investors and industry experts.
At the end of 2018, we had over 250 
technology companies resident at Rise, and a 
virtual community of over 6000 members.
For more information on Rise, please see 
thinkrise.com
Accelerator programme
Rise is home to the Barclays Accelerator, 
powered by Techstars. This 13-week 
programme is designed to tackle some of 
Barclays’ biggest challenges, as well as shape 
and scale the next generation of FinTech 
businesses. To date, we’ve had over 140 
companies graduate from the programme. 
Their combined valuation is estimated at 
£550 million.
This year, Barclays launched ‘Rise Growth 
Investments’, making up to £10 million of 
investment capital available to each class of 
ten companies coming through the Barclays 
Accelerator. These funds would provide 
financial support at a key growth stage for 
FinTech companies working with us on 
strategic opportunities, reflecting Barclays’ 
commitment to mutual growth and success.
For more information on our Accelerator 
companies and latest news, please see: 
barclaysaccelerator.com
Supporting sustainable innovation in society
Society
Barclays Social Innovation Challenge Forum
Barclays Social Innovation Facility hosted 
colleagues for one-day social innovation 
challenges across multiple geographies 
including London and Hong Kong. At the 
challenges, colleagues spent the day in 
teams developing ideas for exciting new 
banking products and services that will be 
not only profitable innovations but also 
deliver a positive impact. 
This year’s participants were challenged with 
how Barclays can use innovation in financial 
services to drive sustainable change, 
including in a number of pressing issues 
such as climate action and environmental 
challenges, access to financial services for 
people with disability, and sustainable cities 
and communities.
Close to three hundred Barclays employees 
including colleagues from Barclays UK, 
Barclays International and Functions took 
place in the event. Facilitators from Rise as 
well as business leaders, intrapreneurs and 
entrepreneurs attended each session to 
provide support and mentorship. 
The winning ideas have qualified for a place 
at the Intrapreneur Lab, a three-month 
incubator programme, to further develop 
their proposition and turn their innovation 
into commercially viable ventures. 
