home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 49
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Backing the UK
When the customers, clients and 
communities we serve succeed, Barclays 
succeeds. This is particularly true in our home 
country, the United Kingdom, which faces an 
uncertain future with Brexit on the horizon. 
Whatever may come, Barclays is here to stay, 
and here to help the 24 million customers 
and almost one million UK businesses, who 
put their trust in us.
That support takes many forms, but there is a 
common approach: teams of colleagues 
using their collective skills and networks to 
create opportunities for our customers, 
clients and the communities that we serve.
This can be seen our support for SMEs across 
regions and sectors. 
Since 2015, we’ve grown our network of Eagle 
Labs to 20 sites across the UK, providing 
entrepreneurs and ambitious businesses with 
the space, tools and confidence to innovate 
and scale. Last year, 450 resident businesses, 
made up of 1,500 co-workers, based 
themselves in the Eagle Labs. To date, 
residents have raised over £236ma in funding.
We are also alive to the challenges facing 
small and medium-sized businesses and are 
always looking for ways to solve them. We 
launched a number of key partnerships with 
fintech businesses in this vein, such as our 
industry-leading collaboration with PayPal to 
enhance our SME digital services; and our 
partnership with MarketInvoice to help 
improve the way small businesses manage 
cashflow and deliver growth.
We also raised our limit on pre-assessed, 
affordable unsecured lending for SMEs up to 
£100k, making small business lending faster, 
simpler and easier. This can be done via 
mobile and online banking, with SMEs often 
receiving the cash that same day.
Another way that we use our skills, expertise 
and networks to help the UK to succeed is 
our contribution to major issues facing the 
country. 
As Brexit draws nearer, we have been working 
to improve the exporting environment for UK 
businesses. This includes a partnership with 
King’s College London to examine barriers to 
exporting and to offer policy solutions, in 
support of the Government’s ambition to 
make exports 35% of GDP. We have also 
launched a dedicated Trade Centre in 
Birmingham, supporting businesses with 
finance options, guidance, risks to consider 
and the steps required to begin exporting. 
Our support for our home of over 328 years 
also extends to housing. We have helped 
around 22,000 people onto the housing 
ladder this year and we launched a £1bn 
Housing Delivery Fund to help smaller 
house-builders to access the funds needed to 
build more homes. 
We continue to support social housing 
providers to access funding, including 
Paragon Housing Group in their renewal of a 
£50m lending facility to enable the continued 
development of 5,700 homes in the East 
Midlands and London area over the next 10 
years. Separately, we have supported the 
London-based Newlon Housing Trust raise 
£135 million in Senior Secured Notes, 
supporting the provision of 2,100 affordable 
new homes.
We have worked with government and others 
to support regional economic growth, too. 
The launch of our £370m Midlands Growth 
Fund and then our £500m Northern 
Powerhouse Growth Fund offer SMEs who 
are seeking to expand support with 
day-to-day cash flow management and 
investment in growth. 
Through our Thriving Local Economies 
initiative, we seek to ensure that every part of 
the country can fulfil its potential and better 
understand how businesses can play a role in 
helping local economies to succeed . Bury 
was chosen as the first pilot area, and over 
three years, Barclays will work closely with 
the council, schools and local business 
groups to develop a number of further 
projects focused on helping the town to 
thrive. 
Over the next year, Barclays will continue to 
build on these initiatives because when the 
UK succeeds, so do we. 
Find out more at home.barclays/who-we-
are/our-strategy/backing-the-uk/
Note
a Total identifiable funding raised by Eagle Lab 
Residents, Members and alumni. Source – 
Crunchbase
