home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 31
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Transition risk
Scenario
The 2°C scenario within the REMIND-MAgPIE integrated assessment model (IAM), developed by the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact 
Research (PIK) for the European Commission-sponsored CD-Links project was used. 
IAMs use socio-demographic and economic projections combined with depictions in global land-use and energy systems to present the impacts 
as related to climate policy and technology transition over the long term (i.e. to 2100). 
The modelling of the financial risk impacts resulting from this model and a 2°C scenario was conducted by Oliver Wyman in conjunction with the 
UNEP FI Pilot Banks. 
Outputs through to the year 2040 were used. 
Assumptions and Scenario backgrounds 
This is one of many possible scenarios which comes with its own set of assumptions. Noteworthy assumptions are: 
?? carbon price increases throughout the 21st century, starting at USD 2/tCO2eq in, and rising to over USD 2/tCO2eq by 2040; 
?? a ‘middle of the road’ world is assumed, where social, economic, and technological trends do not shift markedly from patterns of the recent 
past e.g. developing and developed region per capita GDP increases throughout the century; 
?? Carbon dioxide emissions peak in 2020 and decline rapidly, turning negative as sequestration and reverse emissions technologies take effect by 
2070; 
?? Energy mix transitions rapidly, from fossil fuels to renewables, and by 2040 coal is only 2% of the energy mix and renewables over 25%; 
?? Deforestation reverses after 2020 and carbon sequestration increases, and emissions from both livestock and farming are allocated a carbon 
price. 
The full set of assumptions can be found in the UNEP FI Extending our Horizons report. 
Methodology
The sector was segmented into four homogenous groups based on exposure to climate risk drivers, regulated and high carbon, regulated and 
low carbon, unregulated and high carbon, unregulated and low carbon. 
Probability of Default (PD) calibration was undertaken by Barclays credit risk officers to understand how the transition scenario will impact the 
credit standing of the entities assessed. 
Portfolio calibration was achieved by using the Portfolio Assessment Tool designed by Oliver Wyman, which relies on data sourced and 
scenario conditions defined by the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis 
(IIASA)
Companies were segmented and grouped together with similar characteristics. The stress test was only applied to an E&P sub-set.
The REMIND model assumes oil and gas market prices in 2030 and 2040 of $70-90/BBL for oil and c.$7/Mcf for gas. We also ran sensitized cases 
assuming lower prices given their historically volatile nature and given also that lower prices would place a greater stress on borrowers in this 
sector. 
A further hypothetical scenario was considered where governments and international agencies decide to (and are able to) place an additional levy 
on E&P companies for their role in the carbon-intensive energy value chain, although they don’t directly emit meaningful amounts of greenhouse 
gases. This resulted in four separate case assumptions, 2°C demand with high prices, 2°C demand with high prices and a carbon levy, 2°C demand 
with low prices, 2°C demand with low prices and a carbon levy.
