06 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
We are a company of opportunity makers
Our Purpose and Values
Our common Purpose is ‘Creating opportunities to rise’.  
By creating opportunities for people to rise, we recognise that 
Barclays rises too. We measure and reward our people, not just 
on commercial results, but on how they live our Values and 
bring them to life every day.
Our Purpose and Values are central to Barclays. 
They drive everything we say and do. They are 
fundamental to the relationships we build 
with our colleagues, customers, clients and 
stakeholders and have been part of our DNA 
for over 328 years. They reflect our 
entrepreneurial spirit; our relentless quest for 
better; and our commitment to putting people 
first. Single-minded application of our Purpose 
and Values, across all of our activities, continue 
to build the bank, providing the fundamentals 
upon which to build further success.
In April 2018, we completed one of the most 
complex restructurings ever undertaken by a 
bank. We now look to the future and have a 
renewed focus on growth and returns. The ring 
fencing undertaken is a necessary regulatory 
requirement, but in all the ways that make us 
Barclays, we remain one. We’re united by a 
common set of Values and a single guiding 
Purpose, detailed here, along with the other 
elements that help us play our part in building a 
clear, creative and compelling Barclays.
Our Purpose
In today’s world, a bank needs to 
demonstrate, both internally and externally, 
the honest and authentic way it goes about its 
business, and the value it brings to its 
stakeholders. Purpose-driven organisations 
have higher levels of employee satisfaction, 
higher levels of business performance, and a 
higher level of societal impact. 
We want to see Barclays playing a key role in 
restoring the professionalism of banking and 
want this bank to be respected and admired 
for the strength of its character; for our ability 
to foster trust between Barclays and its 
customers, clients and society. 
Our Purpose also needs to reflect our 
entrepreneurial spirit; our relentless quest for 
better; our customer and client centricity; and 
our commitments to colleagues and to society 
at large.
In the process of researching the new purpose, 
we interviewed colleagues and found that a new 
Purpose would be welcomed in order to reflect 
changes to our strategy and a renewed sense of 
optimism. Colleagues said the statement should 
re-emphasise and build on the strength of 
existing values, and it should focus on what 
business we are in, and the impact we make. 
Our new Purpose therefore reflects this.
