42 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Financial Inclusion
Connecting customers with the financial 
services they require is at the heart of our 
retail, corporate and investment banking 
business. Without access to financial services, 
businesses cannot grow and individuals may 
face exclusion from modern life and significant 
challenges in achieving economic progression. 
At Barclays we work to ensure our services are 
accessible to those who need them across our 
breadth of financial products, from 
transactional bank accounts, credit cards and 
insurance products.
Basic and Community Accounts
Since 2015 we have been offering our Basic 
Current Account which meets HM Treasury’s 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on 
basic bank accounts. These financial inclusion 
accounts are available to anyone who does 
not already have a bank account or who is not 
eligible for a standard account. The account 
includes over-the-counter services, access to 
the ATM network and digital banking. They 
also include free text alerts to help customers 
manage their money and stay in control of 
their finances. There were more than 725,000 
Barclays Basic Current Accounts open at the 
end of 2018.
Access to a transactional bank account enables 
consumers to benefit from bill reductions paid 
by direct debit and access to cheaper goods 
and services on the internet, which goes some 
way towards alleviating the poverty premium.
Through our Community Accounts we provide 
free banking to small not-for-profit organisations. 
With over 130,000 community account 
customers this extends who we provide this free 
service to, including sports and community 
clubs, religious groups, and local charities.
Access to credit
We’ve continued to support increasing access 
to credit with the Barclaycard Initial product. 
The product is specifically designed for those 
with a limited credit history, with a bespoke 
credit strategy, and a price promise where we 
reduce the customer interest rate over time 
based on good payment history. By using our 
online eligibility checker potential customers 
can also find out if they will be accepted for 
the card before they apply, with no impact on 
their credit record.
In 2018 we launched our Credit Builder tool, 
designed to help consumers and our 
customers understand how to improve their 
credit ratings. Following a series of questions 
users are offered tips on how to better manage 
their finances (and credit cards), to improve 
their rating. To date over 250,000 people have 
visited the site to find out more on how to 
improve their credit rating and over 100,000 
people have used the Credit Builder tool.
First-time buyers
In 2018 we helped around 22,000 first-time 
buyers onto the property ladder. Our 
innovations included supporting Shared 
Ownership through raising our maximum 
loan-to-value to 95% and introducing a 
first-time buyer buy-to-let proposition.
We also continue to support first-time buyers 
through our Family Springboard proposition, 
which allows home buyers to secure a 
mortgage, via help from family or friends who 
supply 10% of the purchase price into an 
account that earns interest at the same time. 
Insurance
We have launched a new simple proposition 
for our life insurance (partnered with Legal & 
General) which has been externally recognised 
for its simplicity and quality by the British 
Standards Institution (BSI). To further extend 
the accessibility we have increased the age 
limit from 70 up to 90 and increased the level 
of cover so customers can take from £0.5m 
up to £5m of cover.
This year for home insurance we have reduced 
our application journey and using external 
data are able to provide an instant provisional 
price to 6m customers. We have also made 
home insurance available via our Barclays 
Mobile Banking app and developed an online 
claim journey.
Branch closures
While financial inclusion is dependent on the 
availability of appropriate products in the first 
instance, it also hinges on the physical and 
digital accessibility of those product. With 
customers visiting our branches less and less 
each year, we must constantly assess how and 
why our branches are used and make 
decisions based on these insights. Where we 
take a difficult decision to close a branch, we 
work closely with the local community to 
understand their needs and whether there is 
an alternative solution we can provide. These 
solutions will be specific to each area but may 
include arrangements with the nearest Post 
Office, or pop-up branches, as well as Barclays 
Collect for businesses, Video Banking, fully 
automated facilities or cash machines. We also 
work closely with customers in communities 
across the UK to help them access and feel 
confident in using our digital services through 
our team of Barclays Digital Eagles. 
Digital accessibility
Our main mobile banking mobile apps, 
Barclaycard and Barclays Personal websites 
and Barclays Online Banking have all been 
accredited for accessibility by AbilityNet (a 
leading UK accessibility charity). We continue 
to improve our customer experience for those 
who have accessibility requirements, having 
launched services such as Cheque Imaging 
which allows customers to lodge cheques 
using their mobile phone and being the first 
bank to allow customers to connect other 
bank accounts into our accessible mobile 
banking app following the introduction of 
Open Banking, providing a consistent 
experience across all their accounts. We have 
also seen a 6% year on year increase in the 
number of customers who engaged with us 
digitally in the UK to 10.8m.
Delivering accessible and responsible financial services
Customers and clients
