home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 53
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Parental support
As part of its commitment to creating a 
diverse and inclusive environment, Barclays 
offers a wide range of policies globally to 
support employees balance their professional 
and personal lives, enabling them to take time 
away from work for example to support a 
significant family life event or where they have 
ongoing childcare needs. In most locations 
Barclays offers enhanced maternity, adoption, 
paternity and shared parental entitlements 
which significantly exceeds statutory 
requirements and apply to all employees 
regardless of gender identity or sexual 
orientation. In 2018, all APAC locations 
introduced gender neutral primary and 
non-primary caregiver leave, and extended 
leave and pay entitlements for non-primary 
carers from 2 – 6 weeks, bringing it in line 
with entitlements in the US and UK.
Part-time and temporary employees
In 2018, 11% of Barclays colleagues worked 
on a part-time basis. With regards to benefits, 
those provided to full-time employees are not 
always provided to part-time employees in all 
jurisdictions (i.e. a minimum level of 
scheduled hours applies to qualify for benefits 
in the US, in the UK core benefits are provided 
to all permanently employed colleagues). 
Benefits are not provided to temporary 
employees.
Our colleagues are engaged 
Tracking engagement
An engaged workforce is critical to the success 
and delivery of our strategy. Our principal 
measure of employee engagement is through 
our employee opinion survey ‘Your View’. The 
survey provides colleagues with the opportunity 
to feed back to the business and allows us to 
review overall sustainable engagement.  
This year, we have seen the engagement of 
colleagues who responded improve to 79% (up 
by 4% points since the 2016 survey), 
underscoring the continued efforts to make 
Barclays a great place to work. Further, 91% of 
colleagues reported that they feel able to bring 
their whole selves to work reflecting our 
progress in our diversity and inclusion agenda. 
Participation
Almost 45% of colleagues (over 38,500 
unique participants) took part in volunteering, 
fundraising or regular giving activity with 
Barclays’ support (2017: 43,700). The 
continued transition to more skills-based, high 
impact volunteering activities means fewer 
large-scale team challenge activities, which is 
reflected in the overall participation numbers 
and through an increase to nearly 56% of 
colleagues using their professional skills. This 
includes involvement in our flagship 
programmes, LifeSkills, Connect with Work 
and Unreasonable Impact, as well as a focus 
on the Barclays Digital Eagles programme 
within Barclays UK.
Our annual Make a Difference (MAD) 
volunteering campaign took place throughout 
October 2018. Colleagues around the world 
are encouraged to come together to volunteer 
their time and expertise to make a positive 
difference in their local community. Every year 
we celebrate our colleagues’ citizenship 
achievements through the annual Citizenship 
Awards, which highlights their commitment 
and positive impact. 2018 was the 21st 
anniversary of the Awards, which saw almost 
1,500 employees nominated. From 2019 this 
will be combined to become the Citizenship 
and Diversity Awards, celebrating colleagues 
who go above and beyond in their 
commitment to both citizenship and diversity 
activities.
Colleague networks
To help ensure all employees at Barclays have 
the support and environment to succeed, we 
have seven employee diversity networks. 
These networks provide a forum for 
employees to raise awareness, engage in 
development opportunities and to build 
relationships with colleagues across Barclays 
and with external constituents in the 
communities where we operate. The networks 
focus on gender, age, ethnicity, LGBT+, faith, 
working parents and carers, disabilities, 
mental health and military veterans. Every 
network is open to all employees who wish to 
support the firm in accomplishing its diversity 
goals and creating an inclusive culture.
In addition to our established D&I networks, 
we also have active internal colleague interest 
fora including our environmental networks 
and social intrapreneur networks.
2018 part-time colleagues
% of part-time 
employees
 Part-time 11
 Full-time 89
Part-time employee gender split
Male 9%
Female 91%
Above: At Barclays, we aim to foster a culture 
where individuals of all backgrounds feel confident 
in bringing their whole selves to work, feel included 
and their talents are nurtured, empowering them 
to contribute fully to Barclays vision and goals.
