52 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Colleagues proud of Barclays’ contribution 
to the community and society
87% 
2018 87%
2017 89%
2016 86%
Number of graduates hired in 2018
800
Average hours of training in 2018
 12.53
Colleagues say that Barclays  
is focused on achieving good  
customer and client outcomes
92% 
Colleagues say that they can  
be themselves at work
91% 
Full-time employees 2018
83,500
A diverse and inclusive workforce
We recognise the importance of increasing the 
diversity of our workforce. Our people and 
culture are crucial to the success of our 
business and it is our ambition to be the most 
accessible, inclusive and sought-after 
employer. We want Barclays to be a workplace 
where everyone is valued as an individual and 
has equal access to opportunities. We work to 
ensure that colleagues are welcomed, 
respected, supported and able to be their 
authentic selves.
Our global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy 
establishes objectives, initiatives and plans 
across five core agendas: disability, gender, 
LGBT+, multicultural, and multigenerational.
Please see the People section on paged 93-98 of 
the 2018 Annual Report for further information 
on progress across the D&I pillars
As part of our D&I Strategy, Barclays remains 
focussed on improving gender diversity at all 
levels in the organisation, but with a particular 
focus on senior management. We participate 
in a number of external partnerships to 
promote equality across the industry and 
wider business environment.
We have engaged with our colleagues to 
further our D&I agenda in several ways. Select 
2018 highlights include internal and external 
advocacy relating to our LGBT+ agenda, with 
global leaders pledging to challenge 
discriminatory behaviour in the workplace as 
part of our Spectrum Allies campaign. We 
continued to scale our This is Me campaign to 
external businesses, focussing on challenging 
the stigma around mental health at work. 
2018 saw the growth and promotion of 
Dynamic Working at Barclays, the flagship 
campaign of the Multigenerational agenda, 
enabling colleagues to better manage their 
work and non-work priorities.
We monitor diversity and track our progress 
against the strategy using various indicators 
detailed in the People section of the 2018 
Annual Report.
For more 2018 highlights and progress against 
all of our diversity ambitions, please see the 
People section on pages 93 to 98 of the Annual 
Report and Barclays 2018 Fair Pay Report.
Well-being
Be Well is Barclays ongoing global well-being 
programme to support colleagues to be 
healthy, engaged and to perform at their best. 
It is now in its third year and with senior 
management sponsorship and a network of 
over 600 Be Well Champions. This year, the 
focus has been in two key areas: a new 
commitment to make Barclays ‘mental health 
confident’, and the development of our 
supportive culture across the firm.
Mental health
Our aim through Be Well has been to address 
this by tackling the stigma, so that all 
colleagues feel able to talk openly about 
mental health issues. Key interventions have 
included the global launch of a film of senior 
leaders – including Board members – 
discussing their experience of mental health 
issues and the value of support at work, and 
the launch of a global mental health 
e-learning module.
Our supportive culture
We are focussed on balancing the pressures 
that come with high expectations with the 
right support from leaders, managers and 
other colleagues. To help our leaders and 
managers translate this into practical support 
we launched globally in November a new 
scenarios based guide, along with a new 
‘Circle of Support’ enabling colleagues to 
access in one place all the Barclays resources 
to support their health and wellbeing.
In December a new global portal and online 
health check was launched to selected 
colleagues ahead of an all-colleague launch in 
2019. This acts as a gateway to the Be Well 
programme, with comprehensive resources 
on all aspects of wellbeing including physical 
and mental health, financial health, nutrition, 
resilience, social and sports clubs and 
networks, plus toolkits for line managers.
Enabling an engaged and inclusive workforce
Colleagues
See the People section of the Annual Report for a detailed review  
of the programmes, initiatives and ways in which we are supporting 
our colleagues, which in turn enables us to support our customers, 
clients and the community. This section provides a summary of  
the key ESG topics relating to Barclays colleagues.
