24 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
ii. Enhanced due diligence
Where significant environmental and social 
risks are identified, or the client or transaction 
is in scope of our statements and standards, 
this will be referred to the Group Sustainability 
team and Environmental Risk Management 
team to advise on enhanced due diligence, in 
coordination with the business teams. This 
may include a review of the client’s policies, 
performance and practices, as well as their 
commitments and capacity to manage the 
identified risks. We may also review 
independent third party reports and 
assessments, and engage with the client 
directly to better understand how these risks 
are managed.
iii. Escalation and decision
Where relationships or transactions are 
considered to be high risk following the 
enhanced due diligence review, these are then 
escalated to the appropriate regional and 
business unit Transaction Review Committee, 
which contains senior business and control 
function representatives. Where necessary, this 
may be escalated to a group-wide forum such 
as a sub-committee of the Group Executive 
Committee or ultimately to the Board Reputation 
Committee for final decision. Decisions will be 
informed by the extent to which we can work 
with the company to mitigate the risks causing 
concern. In cases where clients are unable or 
unwilling to agree to an action plan to address 
identified risks, or the risks are deemed too 
high, we may decline to support the transaction 
or continue the client relationship. 
iv. Monitoring
We believe that we can have a greater positive 
impact through supporting clients to improve 
their performance within a reasonable 
timeframe, rather than declining all 
transactions that carry heightened 
environmental or social risks. To achieve this, 
we may as part of the escalation and decision 
process require that environmental and social 
management requirements are integrated into 
loan documentation, and work with the client 
to develop a time-bound action plan to address 
significant risks. In these instances, we will 
monitor the client’s progress on a regular basis. 
Addressing climate change related risks 
We recognise the growing importance of 
climate change as a significant global issue, 
which has impacts for our business and 
clients. As well as managing potential risks to 
our own business, as a financier we have an 
important role to play in ensuring society’s 
energy needs are met whilst helping to limit 
the threat that climate change poses to people 
and to the natural environment.
In 2018 we enhanced our focus on climate 
change-related risks in client transactions by 
revising our approach to sensitive energy 
sectors and, in Q4, making improvements to 
our internal standards to reflect our updated 
position. We further released our Energy and 
Climate Change Statement in January 2019. 
See page 25 for a summary, and the full 
Statement is avilable at home/barclays/
citizenship.
As information on the impacts of climate 
change continues to develop, we look to 
understand the potential impact on our clients 
through increased physical and transition risks 
and how these may affect credit and 
reputational considerations. For example, 
climate change may impact clients’ physical 
assets through increased flood and fire risk 
and severe weather events. There may also be 
impacts driven by changes in governmental 
climate-related policy and changing public 
and stakeholder sentiment on climate issues.
Climate-related risk management
Barclays is taking steps to identify the relative 
significance of climate-related risks as they 
relate to the Principal Risks within the Barclays 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF). To date, climate-related risk is 
considered within Credit and Reputation Risk, 
with climate-related risk as applied to Legal, 
Liquidity and Market Risk being considered 
over the coming years. The TCFD 
implementation programme provides an 
overview of our approach. See page 28 for 
more information on current activity and 
future areas of focus.
Credit Risk 
Environmental risk is recognised as a mainstream 
credit risk issue and Barclays has a dedicated 
Environmental Risk Management team, within 
the central Credit Risk Management function. 
The growing importance of climate change as a 
source of indirect risk is increasingly being 
recognised in credit policy discussions. Currently, 
climate risks are assessed at a relationship level or 
on a transactional level, such as assessing a 
client’s perspective on the potential impacts of 
the climate change agenda on their operations, 
and the extent to which such impacts are 
reflected in their business planning assumptions
Climate change has been noted as a credit 
related risk factor in the 2018 Annual Report. 
Barclays is exposed to credit risks arising from 
energy and climate change. Indirect risks may 
be incurred as a result of environmental issues 
impacting the credit worthiness of the 
borrower resulting in higher impairment. 
Further information on credit risk management 
can be found in the Pillar 3 disclosures 
During 2018, resulting from both TCFD 
implementation, and the UNEP FI pilot 
learnings, the impacts of climate change were 
included in both the Environmental Risk 
Standard and the Client Assessment Standard, 
both of which form part of the ERMF. 
These Standards now require that climate 
change related risks are considered by the 
business teams and Risk Sanctioning Unit 
when reviewing credit applications. The 
climate-related risks cover two dimensions, 
the risks related to the transition to a low 
carbon economy, and the risks related to the 
Potential climate-related risks 
Physical risks
Physical risks can be acute (event driven) or 
chronic (longer-term shifts) resulting in 
adverse financial impacts to clients due to 
changing weather patterns e.g. a client’s 
access to necessary resources, their 
operations and supply chains or their 
distribution networks. Water availability, 
access to food, and extreme temperatures 
are just some examples of physical risks. 
?? Increased severity of extreme weather 
events including flood risk
?? Increased capital costs from damage 
to assets
Transition risks
Transition risks to a low-carbon economy 
include changes to policy, legal, technology, 
and market trends as they address 
mitigation and adaptation requirements 
related to climate change; with the impacts 
of these amounting to financial and 
reputational risks to organisations.
?? Increased costs from new policy and legal 
requirements, such as taxes, compliance 
costs or insurance premiums or early 
retirement of assets due to policy changes.
?? Shifts in consumer preferences as a result 
of negative concerns leading to reduced 
revenue from decreased demand for 
goods/services
?? Increased research and development 
(R&D) expenditures in new and 
alternative technologies and costs to 
deploy new practices and processes.
Environmental and social risk management
Company
