home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 17
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
The Whistleblowing Champion for the 
Barclays Group is accountable for the integrity, 
independence and effectiveness of the Group’s 
policies and procedures on whistleblowing. 
Concerns could relate to a number of things, 
including a breach in our security, 
inappropriate conduct, financial crime, 
harassment, health, safety or environmental 
risks, or anything that is likely to harm the 
reputation of Barclays. The top five thematic 
categories for 2018 are shown on the left of 
page 16. 
Where a concern is substantiated, outcomes 
could include remediation of an internal 
process and/or disciplinary action. 
Cultural change 
Over the last three years we have focused on 
developing and embedding a Culture 
measurement framework (The Culture 
Dashboard), and in 2018; with the launch of 
our new Purpose, have continued to evolve 
the framework so that it generates useful 
insights for senior management to take action 
on to drive cultural change.  
This year, the Culture Dashboard has remained 
anchored in our Values; with consistency in 
metrics maintained as far as is practical whilst 
also addressing business feedback regarding 
the flexibility to include business specific 
metrics at the business discretion.  Reporting 
continues to the Board Reputation Committee, 
Group Executive Committee and Business Unit 
and Functional Executive Committees 
stimulating discussion and debate.  
Colleague engagement is a useful data point 
contained in the Culture Dashboard and 
one measure of how we are embedding the 
desired culture. This year, we have seen the 
engagement of colleagues improve by 4% 
points since 2016 to 79% in 2018, 
underscoring the continued efforts to make 
Barclays a great place to work. Other key 
highlights include “Barclays is focused on 
achieving good customer and client outcomes” 
(92% favourable, up 9% points on 2016);  
“I can be myself at work” (91% favourable) and 
“I feel a strong sense of belonging at Barclays” 
(84% favourable, up 15% points on 2016).
Examples of group wide actions that are key 
to unlocking colleague engagement and 
embedding the desired culture include the 
continued focus on our Dynamic Working 
campaign. An area of continued opportunity 
is embedding the value of Excellence, by 
enabling our colleagues through enhanced 
technology and collaboration tools. The 
ongoing investment in our technology is 
having an impact with colleague responses to 
the question “My business has been 
successful in eliminating obstacles to 
efficiency” (59% favourable, up 23% points on 
2016) which is a sign that progress is being 
made, albeit there is still more to do. 
Note: The Your View comparisons are shown 
as 2018 versus 2016 because 2016 was the 
last all employee survey. During 2017 we ran 
quarterly surveys surveying 25% of our 
population each quarter.
See the People section on pages 93-98 of  
the Annual Report for further information
Managing conduct risk 
Barclays Group defines, manages and 
mitigates Conduct risk with the goal of 
providing positive customer and client 
outcomes, protecting market integrity and 
promoting effective competition. This includes 
taking reasonable steps to assure that 
Barclays Group’s culture and strategy are 
appropriately aligned to these goals; its 
products and services are reasonably designed 
and delivered to meet the needs of customers 
and clients; promoting the fair and orderly 
operation of the markets in which Barclays 
Group does business; and that Barclays Group 
does not commit or facilitate money 
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and 
corruption or breaches of economic sanctions. 
Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and 
Financial Crime are the risk categories within 
the Barclays Group definition of conduct risk.
Barclays is committed to continuing to drive 
the right culture throughout all levels of the 
organisation.  Barclays will continue to 
enhance effective management of conduct 
risk and appropriately consider the relevant 
tools, governance and management 
information in decision-making processes. 
Focus on management of conduct risk is 
ongoing and amongst other relevant business 
and control management information, the 
Barclays Group Conduct Dashboards are a key 
component of this. 
Barclays Group continues to review the role 
and impact of conduct issues in the 
remuneration process at both the individual 
and business level. 
Businesses have continued to assess the 
potential customer, client and market impacts 
of strategic change and structural reform. As 
part of the 2018 medium-term planning 
process, material conduct risks associated 
with strategic and financial plans were assessed. 
Throughout 2018, conduct risks were raised 
by the businesses for consideration by the 
Board Reputation Committee. The Committee 
reviewed the risks raised and whether 
management’s proposed actions were 
appropriate to mitigate the risk effectively. 
The Board Reputation Committee received 
regular updates with regards to key risks and 
issues including those related to structural 
reform and regulatory change 
Barclays Group continued to incur significant 
costs in relation to litigation and conduct 
matters, please refer to Note 27 Legal, 
competition and regulatory matters and Note 
25, provisions in the 2018 Annual Report for 
further detail. Costs include customer redress 
and remediation, as well as fines and 
settlements. Resolution of these matters 
remains a necessary and important part of 
delivering the Barclays Group’s strategy and 
an ongoing commitment to improve oversight 
of culture and conduct. 
The Board Reputation Committee and Senior 
Management received Group Dashboards 
setting out key indicators in relation to 
Conduct, Financial Crime, Culture, Citizenship 
and Complaints. These continue to be evolved 
and enhanced to allow effective oversight and 
decision-making. Barclays has operated at the 
overall set tolerance for conduct risk 
throughout 2018. The tolerance is assessed by 
the business thorough key indicators which 
are aggregated and provide an overall rating 
which is reported to the Board Reputation 
Committee as part of the Conduct Dashboard. 
Barclays remained focused on the continuous 
improvements being made to manage risk 
effectively with an emphasis on enhancing 
governance and management information to 
identify risk at earlier stages. 
See the Conduct Risk management and 
performance sections in the 2018 Annual 
Report for more information.   
See the report of the Board Reputation 
Committee in the Director’s Report for further 
information on Board oversight of culture and 
conduct matters and Committee activity in 
2018. 
See the Pillar 3 Report for further detail  
on Risk management strategy, governance  
and risk culture
