home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 55
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
The collective bargaining coverage of Unite in 
the UK represents c.50% of our global 
workforce. Outside of the UK we work with a 
further 9 unions in Europe through 
engagement with established works councils 
or through sector level bargaining.
We do not collect information on union 
membership but based on the union’s feedback 
to us, estimate that c.30% of UK colleagues are 
members of Unite.
Attrition and internal mobilitya:
In 2018 Group employee turnover was 12.6% 
(2017: 14.0%). Group voluntary attrition was 
9.9% (2017: 9.5%). In 2018 37% of roles were 
filled internally.
Salary levels
At Barclays, salaries reflect individuals’ skills 
and experience and are reviewed annually in 
the context of annual performance 
assessment. They are increased where 
justified by role change, increased 
responsibility or a change in the appropriate 
market rate. Salaries may also be increased in 
line with local statutory requirements and in 
line with union and works council 
commitments. In the UK, Barclays is an 
accredited living wage employer.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct states that all 
employees should be paid a fair wage 
commensurate with prevailing industry 
conditions or the minimum wage, whichever 
is higher. Any overtime should be voluntary 
and compensated appropriately. See page 35 
for more details on our supplier code.
For further information on our colleague 
initiatives, see the People section of the 2018 
Annual Report. See the 2018 Remuneration 
Report for further details on our commitments 
on remuneration.
Voluntary  
attrition
Hire  
rate
Region
UK 8.3 12.8
Asia Pacific 12.2 34.3
Americas 13.5 21.6
Europe 12.8 17.0
Barclays Group 
Ex Africa
9.9 18.6
Voluntary attrition and 
hiring ratea (%)
Note 
a All turnover and attrition metrics are based on a rolling 12 month basis: leavers for the 12 month period divided 
by average headcount for the same period. Turnover/attrition numbers are based on headcount and not FTE. 
All turnover/attrition numbers exclude Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL). Group employee turnover relates  
to all leavers. Voluntary attrition relates only to voluntary leavers 
Barclays ‘This is Me’ campaign
Christine is proud to be an active member of 
Barclays Reach network and a Reach Purple 
Champion along with others, who are 
important allies in helping build disability 
and mental health confidence within 
Barclays. Reach allies drive Barclays ambition 
to create a truly open and inclusive culture 
where colleagues can bring their whole 
selves to work. Internally and externally 
Christine is a huge advocate and ally of the 
‘This is Me’ campaign which encourages 
colleagues to share their stories about 
disability, mental health and wellbeing and 
has been involved in launches of the 
campaign in both Manchester and Liverpool.
Christine, a Director of Transformation, 
shared her story about experiencing what 
she describes as ‘burn out’. She said: “I 
juggle a challenging work and home life. In 
2014, I wasn’t able to get the balance right. I 
was in denial about how I felt, but I didn’t 
want people to see I was struggling and I 
didn’t want to ask for help because I saw it 
as a sign of weakness.”
It was the physical signs of her illness that 
triggered her to seek help, and she took five 
months off due to stress, anxiety and 
exhaustion. “Barclays provided me with the 
most amazing support throughout my 
absence – I’d go as far as to say it was world 
class. Dynamic Working helps me manage 
my work and home life, and knowing that 
Barclays trusts me to do my job in the best 
way for me and my family makes such a 
difference.
“What’s most important is that people are 
talking about mental health and that they 
don’t feel ashamed if they are struggling 
with it. If I’d known more about wellbeing in 
2014 I may not have reached the low that I 
did. Prevention is always better than cure, 
but if it’s needed then the support available 
is truly amazing. My advice to anyone is to 
talk to someone and get the help you need.”
