home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 11
Leadership team
O
ur focus areas
A
dditional inform
ation
Context and approach
Areas of focus in 2018
Company
Governance and management of ESG matters
?? Board oversight and management structures 
?? Best-in-class Corporate Governance standards and 
frameworks for all Barclays PLC and subsidiaries.
?? Performance framework includes non-financial outcomes, 
covering customer and client, colleague and citizenship 
and sustainability 
Barclays PLC Board provided continued oversight of ESG 
matters
Board Reputation Committee reviewed management of 
conduct and reputation risk and Barclays approch to 
Citizenship, environmental and social matters
See the Barclays PLC Directors Report  
See the Barclays PLC Strategic Report 
Managing ESG-related risks 
?? Overview of Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
?? Key risk management themes: 
 – Culture and conduct
 – Digital resilience and data privacy
 – Environmental and Social Risk management
 – Human rights and modern slavery 
99.9% of employees completed training on the Barclays Way 
code of conduct 
Established Joint Operations Centre network to enhance 
resilience and security 
219 transactions screened for social and environmental risk 
See the Risk Review in the Annual report and 
the Pillar 3 disclosures
Environmental stewardship and addressing climate 
change  
?? Approach to energy and climate change 
?? Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
?? Managing our environmental footprint 
Published external statements on Energy and Climate 
Change, Forestry and palm oil, and Ramsar Wetlands and 
World Heritage sites
Participated in pilot TCFD climate scenario analysis projects 
Reduced carbon emissions by 38%
Customer 
and Client
Customer centricity and empowering consumers and 
small businesses 
?? Delivering responsible products and improving customer 
experience 
?? Increasing accessibiliity of products and services 
?? Customer support and empowerment 
?? Supporting business growth and backing the UK
First UK High Street bank to enable customers to block 
payments to gambling services through mobile banking
Launched Credit builder tool to help customers learn how to 
improve credit scores 
Launched £370m Midlands Growth Fund and £500m 
Northern Powerhouse Fund in the UK 
See the Barclays PLC Strategic Report 
Green and sustainable finance
?? Capital markets and advisory products 
?? Lending products and dedicated green product set 
?? Sustainable and Thematic Research
?? Responsible investment and ESG and Impact Investing 
products
?? Treasury Green Bond portfolio
Facilitated £27.3bn in financing for specific environmental 
and social segments
Launched first green mortgage in the UK 
Expanded green and sustainable finance platform including 
new banking and research teams 
£2.3bn Treasury Green Bond portfolio 
Colleague
Building an engaged and inclusive workforce 
?? Improving employee engagement 
?? Diversity and inclusion 
?? Building human capital 
?? Employee well-being 
87% of colleagues proud of Barclays’ contribution to 
community and society 
12.53 average training hours per employee 
See the People section in the Barclays PLC 
Annual Report 
Society
Supporting our communities and wider society 
?? Global empoyability and skills programmes 
?? Supporting sustainable innovation 
2.4 million people helped to improve skills
90 ventures supported through Unreasonable Impact 
accelerator 
?? Responsible tax 
?? Stakeholder and public policy engagement See the Country Snapshot for more information
HighlightsOverall themes
