home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 23
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Statements and standards 
Barclays sector-specific position statements 
outline our requirements and expectations of 
clients in sectors with significant potential 
environmental and social impacts, and are 
applied through corresponding internal 
standards. These position statements are 
developed in consultation with external 
stakeholders and aligned with industry best 
practices, such as the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. We 
have developed internal standards that embed 
the provisions within our external statements. 
These standards are embedded within the 
overall Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) and are managed as a 
core part of transaction origination, review 
and approval processes where applicable. 
During 2018, we developed a series of external 
position statements on Coal, World Heritage 
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, published in April 
2018 and a comprehensive Energy and Climate 
Change Statement published in January 2019. 
The Energy and Climate Change Statement 
incorporates, strengthens, and replaces the 
Barclays Coal Statement published in May 
2018. See page 25 for more detail. 
Equator Principles
For project related finance, we apply our 
Environmental Risk Standard which implements 
the Equator Principles and relevant IFC 
Performance Standards. The Equator Principles 
are an internationally recognised framework for 
environmental and social risk due diligence in 
project related finance. Barclays was one of the 
four banks which collaborated in developing the 
Principles, ahead of their launch in 2003 with 10 
adopting banks, and we have continued to be 
actively involved. Our Environmental Risk 
Standard is supported by a toolkit for employees 
comprising a range of practical guidance 
documents. These include a detailed process 
guide, a screening tool, guidance for engaging 
consultants for environmental assessments and 
sample clauses for loan documentation.
Client transaction review process
i. Risk identification
Barclays front office business teams are 
responsible for identifying transactions and 
relationships that may present significant 
environmental and social risks, these may 
include broader considerations on human 
rights, labour practices and operations in 
sensitive geographies. These teams also review 
client relationships and transactions that are in 
scope of our position statements and internal 
standards, as part of their normal due diligence. 
Credit risk teams also identify higher risk 
transactions and are able to leverage their 
regional, sector and product-related expertise 
to identify environmental and social risks. In 
2018 we updated our Client Assessment 
Standard, with a requirement for credit 
officers to assess credit applications against 
the impacts of climate change related risks, 
including physical and transition risks. See 
page 28 for further information on climate risk 
management activity as part of our TCFD 
disclosures. 
The Group Sustainability and Environmental 
Risk Management teams provide training to 
both front office, credit risk and compliance 
teams to raise awareness of the risks in 
particular sectors and understand their 
responsibilities in identifying these risks. We 
also have developed detailed industry-specific 
risk guidance notes covering more than 50 
environmentally and socially sensitive 
activities across 10 different sectors to further 
support business line and function teams. 
Sectors covered include Agriculture and 
Fisheries to Oil and Gas, from Mining and 
Metals to Utilities and Waste Management.
Client Assessment 
Standard
Defence sector Ramsar Wetlands/
World Heritage Sites
Forestry & Palm OilEnergy &  
Climate Change
External position statements
Internal standards to embed provisions
Nuclear Standard
Environmental Risk 
Standard
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Integrated into risk management process and 3 lines of defence model
Guidance notes for business and sanctioning teams on 10 sensitive sectors and associated environmental and social impacts
Forestry & Palm Oil 
(Feb 2019)
Energy &  
Climate Change 
(Jan 2019)
Ramsar Wetlands/
World Heritage Sites
(April 2018)
Defence sector 
(2015)
Environmental Risk 
in Lending 
(2016)
