40 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Basic Current Account customers
725,000 
2018 725,000
2017 674,000
NPS® Current Account*
+17 
2018 +17
2017 +14
NPS® Card*
+9 
2018 +9
2017 +9
 
We have a pivotal role to play in society, 
building relationships where we understand 
our customers and clients’ aspirations and 
developing the products and services that 
meet their needs, thereby making a difference 
to their finances and lives. 
We carefully consider the requirements of all 
our stakeholders during the development of 
products and services. This includes a 
commitment to accessibility and inclusion, 
giving customers the ability to take control of 
their finances in a manner convenient to them 
and the promotion of financial capability. 
Furthermore, within Barclays UK, we have a 
Performance Framework in place, created and 
owned by customer facing teams, that 
provides guidance on how to measure, 
manage and reward our colleagues. This in 
turn equips them with the tools to provide 
great customer experiences and outcomes as 
they are better able to:
?? Support customer understanding of our 
products and services through their 
preferred channel of choice resulting in a 
great customer experience; 
?? Support Barclays’ brand through alignment 
to our Purpose, Values, Conduct Rules and 
Barclays UK strategy;
?? Create a high-performance culture leading 
to sustainable growth; 
?? Support continuous collaboration across 
Barclays UK; and
?? Feel empowered to take accountability for 
good customer outcomes. 
Selected frontline staff are trained to identify 
signs that customers encounter financial 
difficulties, and where necessary we work with 
our customers to enable them to return to 
financial health.
 
See the Annual Report Risk review section for 
more detail on our forbearance programmes
Delivering accessible and responsible financial services
Customers and clients
Barclays’ strategy reflects our commitment to treating our 
customers fairly. We believe that transparency of information 
in our products and services is key to empowering consumers 
to make good financial decisions.
Right: Barclaycard has developed a digital interactive 
‘Fraud Fighter’ tool which has helped over 500,000 
customers understand how they are vulnerable to 
fraud and what they can do to protect themselves.
Notes
* NPS® measures customer experience and facilitates 
benchmarking. It is widely used in banking and other 
industries and utilises a mixed-methodology to ensure 
full representativeness of financial behaviours across the 
GB population. The basis of Barclays Relationship NPS® 
has been a 12-month rolling average to minimise data 
fluctuations. 
Source: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2018. 
Adults interviewed: 8,765 Barclays main Current 
Account holders (Barclays Relationship NPS®), and 
4,741 Barclays main Credit Card holders (Barclaycard 
UK Relationship NPS®).
®Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter 
Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered 
trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and 
Satmetrix Systems, Inc.
