60 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Investing in our communities
Society
Barclays is supporting the societies in which we work 
by focussing on the areas where we can have the most impact: 
employability, financial health and innovation. We also 
invest in our societies through community partnerships and 
programmes, as well as philanthropic donations. By helping 
our communities thrive, we help our business prosper.
Employability skills programmes
The global labour market continues to undergo 
major structural changes with far-reaching 
implications for future workforces. We 
recognise issues in our communities such as 
underemployment, lack of progression and 
preparation for the changing world of work. 
We aim to address these by investing in 
employability programmes focussing on three 
key areas – upskilling, pathways into 
employment and job creation.
Our flagship programmes include LifeSkills, 
aimed at providing millions of people with 
employability skills, and Connect with Work, 
connecting participants with businesses to 
help them secure jobs and apprenticeships.
We address the key challenge area of job 
creation through our innovation and scale-up 
initiatives – see page 63 for further detail.
LifeSkills
To date more than 7.5ma young people have 
participated in the Barclays UK LifeSkills 
programme. In 2018 the programme 
continued to make an impact on the young 
people who participated in the programme, 
with 88% feeling more positive about the 
future and 85% feeling better prepared to 
make future career decisions. New content 
has been developed to help prepare young 
people for the future world of work, most 
notably a suite of enterprise resources 
designed to help young people build on 
their skills with a view to either setting up 
their own businesses or being more 
enterprising employees. 
Programme content has continued to evolve 
and grow on the key 21st century skills that 
young people will need, a toolkit has been 
developed for educators that embeds a 21st 
century mindset across all areas. LifeSkills has 
been aligned to the UK Government’s Careers 
Strategy and Gatbsy Benchmarks – helping 
careers leads in schools to plan and deliver 
employability skills teaching.
Young people agreed that:
88%
felt more positive  
about the future
86%
felt more motivated to  
do better in academic  
and vocational studies
LifeSkills helped them:
85%
felt better prepared  
to make future  
career decisions
71%
felt they now had  
higher ambitions  
and aspirations
Young people reported their skills 
development to have improved:
78%
understand skills needed  
for the 21st century workplace
85%
understand how to  
efficiently tackle problems
Educational institutions registered 
with LifeSkills:
76%
of secondary schools  
actively using the  
programme
67%
of universities actively  
using the programme
LifeSkills impactb
LifeSkills
Working in underrepresented communities 
including white working-class boys
LifeSkills collaborated with The Transformation 
Trust, a charity who work with some of the 
most challenged schools in the country.
Through independent data we identified 
that the least likely of any social group in 
England to go to university, have the worst 
GCSE exam results and least likely to find 
jobs after leaving school was white 
working-class boys. The strategy was to 
deliver an intensive programme of critical 
employability skills training together with 
careers support, to increase support to this 
under-served demographic to enable them 
to reach their full potential. We took 50 
boys aged 15 on a skills building journey, 
working with a dedicated youth mentor, 
15 Barclays business mentors and local 
businesses from their areas.
The programme has been very successful 
in achieving its stated aims. Clarity of young 
people’s plans for the future improved 
dramatically and there is evidence that 
many participants’ aspirations became 
more ambitious and yet well-grounded with 
further evidence that this is translating into 
a new mind set and approach to learning.
2.4mr
people upskilled by Barclays employability 
programmes in 2018.
Notes
a LifeSkills participation of 7.79m has been subject to 
limited assurance by KPMG. Refer to page 68
b  Taken from the 2017 LifeSkills UK Impact Report: 
barclayslifeskills.com/educators/resources/
r Subject to limited assurance by KPMG. Refer to page 68
