20 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Data privacy
Most countries in which Barclays has a 
presence have privacy laws governing the 
collection, use and disclosure of personal 
data, or are considering their introduction. 
The harmonization of the European privacy 
regime through the introduction of the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
was a major focus in 2018 however new laws 
have also recently been introduced in 
California, the Cayman Islands, and Brazil; 
India is currently considering a new draft law. 
Existing laws in Japan, Guernsey, Jersey and 
the Isle of Man have also recently been 
updated.
As a global business, with transactions and IT 
infrastructure spanning multiple counties, it 
may be necessary for personal information to 
be made available or stored in countries other 
than where it was originally collected. The 
proper handling and protection of personal 
data is very important to our clients, 
employees and to regulators, and compliance 
with several different privacy laws can be 
challenging, with considerable regulatory fines 
for breaches, for example up to 4% of global 
turnover under the new European General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Barclays 
ensures adherence to global requirements 
through our Group-Wide Privacy Policy and 
Global Privacy Standard, which apply a 
standard approach across all Barclays’ 
businesses and functions.
Policies and controls
Whether or not Barclays is operating in a 
jurisdiction with local privacy law all Barclays’ 
businesses and functions are required to 
comply with our Group-Wide Privacy Policy 
and Global Privacy Standard. These reflect the 
core personal data handling principles found 
in data protection and privacy laws globally, 
providing a common baseline standard across 
the Group. Annual training on Privacy issues is 
mandatory for all staff, with additional training 
provided to meet specific needs where 
necessary. We also have controls in place to 
ensure employees only have ‘need to know’ 
access to personal data.
Privacy is just as important to our 
relationships with third parties, including 
suppliers and business partners. We recognise 
the importance of working with trusted 
partners and have a series of public external 
supplier control obligations, which include 
data privacy and security matters. We have a 
robust supplier assurance framework, to 
establish whether suppliers meet these 
obligations.
Details on this framework are available at: home.
barclays/who-we-are/our-suppliers/
our-requirements-of-external-suppliers/
As part of our GDPR preparations we updated 
policies, systems and processes across Europe 
and established a Group Data Protection 
Officer, to coordinate and manage our 
compliance with privacy laws and respect for 
individuals’ rights.
Communications and awareness
We publish details of the mechanisms that 
customers can use to exercise their rights and 
also maintain a centralised data protection 
mailbox where members of the public may 
raise complaints and concerns with the Group 
Data Protection Officer. To commemorate 
World Privacy Day in January 2019 we hosted 
a series of presentations in the UK by 
significant external speakers focusing on the 
implications for privacy from developments in 
FinTech and Artificial Intelligence, and some 
of our overseas offices  raised  awareness by 
staging local talks and privacy roadshows.
Our Data Privacy Policy can be found at: home.
barclays/privacy-policy.html
Our UK online commitment to customers can be 
found at: barclays.co.uk/important-information/
control-your-data/
Data management and information security
The scale of the threat from cyber-attack to 
the financial industry remains significant. 
Banks are an obvious target for criminals, as 
recent media reporting has highlighted. 
However, Barclays has taken major strides in 
the last 12 months to better protect 
customers’ information and commercial data 
and ensure that we have the strongest possible 
security tools and controls to achieve this.
This year we have introduced new policies and 
technology to ensure that all data created or 
managed by Barclays caries a clear security 
classification and that, through mandatory 
training, all colleagues understand how they 
should handle and protect information to keep 
it safe. This has enabled us to deploy 
additional controls that respond to these 
labels and to observe a step change in 
colleagues’ awareness of their data security 
responsibilities.
We have also worked back through our stock 
of data and applied security labels 
retrospectively to our most sensitive data and 
will, by the end of the year, have encrypted 
this information so that it cannot be exploited 
even if it falls into the wrong hands.  
From the end of the year all newly created 
sensitive data will be encrypted at source and 
remain so, whether moving between 
colleagues, technologies or outside of the bank.
We have further strengthened our controls to 
ensure that data cannot leave the organisation 
or be shared inappropriately unless colleagues 
have dispensations to do so. We have 
additional technology deployed on our 
perimeter to provide further safeguard against 
this risk.  
Additionally, we have taken steps to work 
more closely with counter-parties and vendors 
to ensure that they have in place effective data 
management so that data which we have 
chosen to share is afforded the appropriate 
protections.  
Next year we will go further and extend the 
protections we have developed to more of our 
information and deploy state-of-the-art 
technology to constantly scan and interrogate 
our information stores and data flows to 
identify security risks and trigger additional 
safeguards.
Data resilience
CSO (Chief Security Office) have a set of 
preventative Key Controls that mitigate 
cyber-related risks. These focus on 
understanding internal and external threats and 
delivering our capability to counteract them.   
One cyber risk on which the firm is focused is 
Large Scale Data Corruption.  Major risk 
events have been experienced in the industry 
and Barclays has responded to protect against 
those threats. As threats evolve we adjust our 
stance.  Our teams use intelligence to create 
plausible Cyber Security Compromise 
Scenarios, that they deliver through real-life 
simulation exercises to help us focus on 
continuous improvement.  
We further provide information to the public on 
how to stay safe online and manage their personal 
data at: barclays.co.uk/security/
Managing privacy and increasing digital resilience
Company
