32 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Taskforce on climate-related financial disclosures
TCFD implementation update 
Transition risk
Electric Utilities Oil and Gas (sub-set E&P)
Time Horizon
Baseline, 2030, 2040 
 
Baseline, 2030, 2040
Scope
Sub-sectors: power generation, power transmission and distribution, 
integrated utilities, electricity production and distribution. 
Countries: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, 
Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, 
Sweden, the UK, and the USA
Products: liquidity facility loans, revolver/term loans, revolving credit 
facilities, swingline, letter of credit, municipal letter of credit, and standby 
letter of credit. 
Companies were selected that were exclusively involved in Exploration 
and Production
Sub-sectors: US shale, Oil Sands, RoW Offshore (mainly Europe)
Results
Under the “2040 - 2°C scenario” the climate stressed Exposure at 
Default-weighted average portfolio PD is 
?? 2.2x greater in the US relative to 2017
?? 2.3x greater in the EU relative to 2017.
Given the majority of the utilities are investment grade, stressed average 
PDs result in a portfolio that remains largely in the investment grade or 
high non-investment grade credit categories.
There were though, high carbon entities heavily dependent on coal that 
were identified. 
At High Prices, the impact on estimated loss is limited and back-ended 
given oil/gas demand (according to Remind 2°C assumptions) declines 
materially only after 2030.
At Lower Prices, the impact on borrowers was more severe.
Next steps
Engagement can now be targeted to specific companies which could 
be materially stressed, and to discuss transition plans away from high 
carbon.
The quality of the stress tests could be significantly improved if the utilities 
were to disclose standardised climate relevant risks and data e.g. current 
generation mix, the expiry date of the licenses of their nuclear capacity.
Results demonstrate that the book is sensitive to key inputs such as 
oil & gas prices, which are volatile and difficult to predict. Results are 
also influenced by assumptions around rate of oil/gas demand 
volume declines, which may continue to shift as technology develops.
Key challenges
The work conducted across all three sectors was resource intensive, and required consequent data extraction as well as generation in the event 
when they were not internally or externally available. Further, there are many climate scenarios (and models) which could be tested and this 
pilot provided one approach, with specific assumptions accompanying a specific model. Other models might tackle some of the climate related 
challenges and make assumptions in a different way.
Overall outcomes
The testing of these scenarios proved a useful exercise which informed additions to risk processes including, climate-related risks integration into the 
Environmental Risk Standard and the Client Assessment Standard, see page 24. Under the scenarios tested there are currently no material climate-
related financial risks at a sector level, although further testing is required. Barclays acknowledges that climate-related risks are apparent now, and the 
financial risks will manifest over the medium to longer terms. This work has encouraged a second iteration , which provides a set of qualitative 
analyses on transition risks for relevant sectors during Risk reviews. These climate-related transition risk reports are intended to provide a top-down 
view of climate risks when setting risk appetite, as well as helping to shape our scenario analysis capabilities. These involve identifying a number of 
climate risk attributes in each sector and outlining the impacts of these on economic indicators and sector financial performance.
For further information on the electric utilities in the United States and Europe, please see p.51 of the UNEP FI report, Extending our Horizons. 
