16 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Building a positive conduct and values-based culture
Company
Barclays’ Values are: Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship. 
All Barclays colleagues have annual reviews, which include an assessment of their 
performance against these values. 
The Barclays Way – our Code of Conduct – 
was launched in 2013, replacing many existing 
codes of conduct with one unifying 
document. It outlines the Purpose and Values 
which govern our way of working across our 
business globally. It constitutes a reference 
point covering all aspects of colleagues’ 
working relationships, specifically (but not 
exclusively) with other Barclays employees, 
customers and clients, governments and 
regulators, business partners, suppliers, 
competitors and the broader community. 
The Barclays Way includes information and 
guidance on how employees are expected to 
behave and take personal accountability for 
making decisions. We apply a range of criteria, 
over and above financial considerations, 
aimed at building a sustainable, strong and 
profitable business for the long term and 
adding value to our business relationships and 
the broader communities in which we live and 
work. We provide guidance across key 
stakeholder groups, including service for 
customers and clients, promoting respect, 
diversity and performance in the workplace, 
maintaining strong governance, robust 
controls and strict ethical standards. 
The Code is reviewed and updated annually to 
ensure it reflects best practice, which includes 
benchmarking and review by external 
organisations.  We have incorporated these 
recommendations in the 2018 edition and also 
updated guidance on discrimination, bullying 
and harassment and on personal relationships 
at work as well as reduced the detailed scope 
of the policies and guidance section, 
signposting colleagues to the internal Global 
Policy Hub.
The Barclays Way is aligned to the Code of 
Professional Conduct, published by the 
Chartered Banker Professional Standards 
Board, which sets out the ethical and 
professional attitudes and behaviours 
expected of bankers. Barclays subscribes to 
this code and is committed to embedding its 
broad principles into our business.
The Barclays Way is available on our website at 
home.barclays/citizenship/ourapproach/
policy-positions
As at end 2018, 99.9% of our colleagues had 
completed mandatory training and attested to 
the Barclays Way (2017: 99.9%).. The Barclays 
Way is available on our website at home.
barclays/citizenship/ourapproach/policy-
positions.html
The Barclays Way also includes advice and 
guidance on speaking up and raising concerns 
regarding colleagues, contractors and clients.
It is important for the success of Barclays, and 
the safety and wellbeing of our customers, 
clients and colleagues, that we encourage a 
culture which supports speaking up when 
things aren’t as they should be.
A significant majority of Barclays’ employees 
feel it is safe to speak up, which is 
encouraging. While individuals may be 
comfortable raising concerns directly with 
their line manager, Compliance, Human 
Resources or Legal, Barclays recognises that 
this isn’t always the case. In some 
circumstances individuals might not know 
who to go to or might want to speak up 
confidentially.
Barclays has a centralised Raising Concerns 
team which reviews all concerns, assesses 
them, and where necessary directs them to an 
appropriate team for investigation. Multiple 
channels exist for raising concerns, including 
a web form, email and telephone lines. The 
bank’s intranet site sets out clearly how to 
raise a concern.
Whistleblowing is a core element of raising 
concerns at Barclays. Arrangements are in 
place for employees to obtain free, 
confidential advice on whether or how to 
make a whistleblowing report by calling 
Protect, the Whistleblowing charity, or by 
visiting its website. Employees are also 
informed that they are able to raise their 
concerns directly with a regulator. Barclays 
has a zero tolerance approach to retaliation. It 
provides a process for individuals to raise 
whistleblowing concerns without fear of 
retaliation and with confidence that the 
concern will be taken seriously and a 
meaningful review conducted. Any employee 
who has retaliated against a whistleblower, or 
an individual who provides information as part 
of an investigation, may be subject to 
disciplinary proceedings. 
 
Code of conduct
99.9% 
of colleagues completed mandatory 
training on the Barclays Way
Engaged colleagues
79% 
overall sustainable engagement score
Whistleblowing
Top 5 thematic 
categories 2018
 Breach of controls, process or other 42%
 Breach of policy 17%
 Theft/fraud 8%
 Mis-selling 7%
 Breach of confidential information 7%
