home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 05
Context and approach
O
ur focus areas
A
dditional inform
ation
Leadership team
Continuing to deliver for customers, 
clients, colleagues and society 
Evolving our approach 
Banks play a key role in connecting the 
providers and users of capital. Barclays 
recognises this role in serving society, and our 
success has always been inextricably linked to 
the progress of the people, communities and 
businesses that we serve. As society’s 
expectations of business continue to evolve, 
we aim to stay ahead of those expectations. It 
is by focusing on our core products and 
services, and on our relationships, that we can 
make the greatest positive impact.
So as we move forward into 2019, our 
Citizenship and Sustainability work will evolve 
to align with our new Purpose, and will go 
further toward improving the positive social 
and environmental impact of the business we 
do every day.
Capital and products
We will continue to develop opportunities to 
achieve positive outcomes through the 
financing solutions and the products and 
services we provide across the diverse consumer 
and wholesale client segments we serve. 
?? We will facilitate £150bna of social and 
environmental financing by 2025, including 
funding for sectors such as renewable 
energy, clean technology, education, 
affordable housing and national and 
supranational development institutions. 
?? We remain committed to the green bond 
market as an investor and after meeting 
our £2bn target, we now aim to double our 
green bond investment to £4bnb over time.
Skills and employability 
We will scale our partnerships with leading 
community organisations to address critical 
skills development and employability 
opportunities.  
?? We aim to upskill ten millionc people over 
the next five years to support all 
generations through our LifeSkills 
programme, across the whole of the UK. 
?? We will also use our networks to help 
provide pathways to employment using 
a demand-driven approach. We will help 
place 250,000d people into work through 
our Connect with Work partnerships across 
the UK, US and Asia by 2022.
Economic growth 
Barclays has been part of the fabric of the UK 
for over 328 years. In addition to our role in 
the UK as a leading employer and provider of 
financial services across all segments of the 
economy, we will also pursue targeted local 
economic growth initiatives working in 
partnership with stakeholders.  
?? We will support business growth across the 
UK through dedicated regional and industry 
focused growth funds. 
?? We will work with partners to identify the 
opportunities to build thriving local 
economies and run pilot schemes in four 
different local economies around the UK by 
2022.
Sustainable Innovation
We recognise the role of innovation in solving 
some of society’s most pressing challenges 
and the part Barclays can play in supporting 
new ideas to flourish, and entrepreneurs and 
ventures to grow and thrive.
?? We will support innovative business models 
and help to mentor over 250e high impact 
businesses solving social and 
environmental challenges through our 
Unreasonable Impact accelerator by 2022.
?? We will continue to support Barclays’ Social 
Innovation Facility (SIF) to enable 
colleagues to develop new products and 
services that allow Barclays to generate 
both commercial and social value.
Environmental Stewardship
Banks have an important role to play in 
ensuring the world’s energy needs are met 
while helping to limit the threat that climate 
change poses to people and to the natural 
environment. We are focused on three areas 
of activity at Barclays:
?? Financing the growth of renewable energy 
sources and proactively supporting the 
development of businesses aiming to solve 
the world’s environmental challenges;
?? Taking a responsible and sustainable 
approach to the necessary financing of 
sources of energy that are more carbon 
intensive or those with higher 
environmental impact; and
?? Reducing the carbon footprint of our own 
operations and supply chain throughout 
the world. We will reduce operational scope 
1 and 2 emissions by 80% by 2025f and 
commit to RE100, to procure 100% 
of global operational electricity needs from 
renewable sources by 2030, with an interim 
target of 90% by 2025.
Continuing to deliver for customers,  
clients, colleagues and society 
We recognise that the focus on the societal 
impact of businesses and performance on 
wider Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) factors continues to evolve rapidly, 
with increasing interest from a wide range 
of stakeholders including clients, investors, 
policy makers and regulators. We will maintain 
and enhance our focus on integrating these 
issues with our core business strategy, 
ensuring we manage and deliver societal 
impact in a way that generates enduring 
long-term returns for investors and society.
We aim to continue to develop our social and 
environmental financing solutions and wider 
product platform across our core business 
lines and implement a broader sustainability 
approach. We will scale our award-winning 
employability and skills partnerships and 
continue to invest in supporting the next 
generation of positive-impact businesses. In 
addition, we recognise that markets and 
stakeholders need clear, relevant and 
consistent information and will continue to 
focus on enhancing disclosure, transparency 
and engagement, particularly on climate 
change, and across wider ESG factors.
Looking to the future 
We aspire to be one of the world’s most 
respected and well-regarded banks. We have 
worked hard to resolve outstanding legacy 
issues, while continuing to strengthen our 
control environment. We put our customers 
and clients at the heart of everything we do, 
and seek to strengthen the trust placed in us 
by society. 
The organisation has evolved and as we look 
to the future, we reflect upon Barclays as it is 
today, and how we want it to be tomorrow. 
While our business and the world around us 
have changed profoundly over the years, our 
opportunity-seeking spirit has not. We have 
always been opportunity makers – whether by 
funding pioneering industries, embracing new 
sustainable technologies or deploying 
initiatives that drive skills and employability. 
When we help to unlock these opportunities, 
our customers and clients prosper, economies 
do better, and society becomes stronger.
James E. Staley
Group Chief Executive 
Notes
a Total financing volume in eligible social and 
environmental categories according to Barclays 
Impact Eligibility Framework (2018-2025) 
b Investments in labelled Green Bonds by Barclays 
Treasury (no end timeframe)
c Total number of participants (2018-2022) 
d Total number of work placements across 
programmes and regions (2019-2022) 
e Total number of participating ventures since launch 
(2016-2022)
f Scope 2 emissions measured according to market 
basis under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (2025 
against a 2018 baseline)
