home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 09
Leadership team
O
ur focus areas
A
dditional inform
ation
Context and approachCompany
?? We support our stakeholders via a 
commercially successful business that 
generates long-term sustainable returns
?? We work together with regulators to help 
reduce risk in the industry and provide a 
more sustainable banking landscape over 
the long term
Customers and Clients
?? We offer superior service through a broad 
range of products to enable customers and 
clients to achieve their goals, and engaging 
with customers and clients in the way the 
want to engage with us
?? We develop strong relationships with 
customers and clients built on trust
Colleagues
?? We help our people have challenging and 
fulfilling careers in a values-driven 
organisation
?? We help our colleagues develop themselves 
and empower them to work in a way that 
suits their lives and supports our business 
Citizenship
?? We deliver financing solutions in social and 
environmental sectors, and enable access to 
financial and digital empowerment for 
individuals and companies 
?? We help provide employment and growth in 
the economies in which we operate
?? We engage with governments and society to 
address societal issues and needs
Financial
Non-financial
Financial
?? Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) of greater than 9% 
in 2019 and greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation 
and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%
?? CET1 ratio of c.13%
?? Group costs, excluding litigation and conduct, of £13.6–13.9bn 
in 2019, and a target cost: income ratio below 60% over time
Non-financial
?? Building trust with our customers and clients
?? Successfully innovating and developing products
?? Providing accessible products and services
?? Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce
?? Motivating engaged and enabled colleagues
?? Enabling a positive conduct and a values-based environment
?? Making decisions and doing business that provides our 
stakeholders with access to a prosperous future
?? Proactively manage the environmental and societal impacts 
of our business
Value createdOutputs
