home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 45
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
?? Barclays helped raise $1.47bn through a 
bond offering for the acquisition of HCR 
ManorCare by ProMedica Health Systems (a 
leading not for profit healthcare provider). 
The transaction was deemed one of the 
largest acquisitions of a for-profit company 
by a not-for-profit healthcare entity and the 
combined organisation aims to create a 
unique healthcare delivery platform that will 
redefine healthy aging for the future.
?? In June 2018, Barclays acted as Sole 
Placement Agent on a $55 million Series D 
equity financing for BrightFarms, the No. 1 
U.S. brand in locally grown packaged salads. 
BrightFarms builds and operates 
greenhouse farms near major metropolitan 
areas to provide supermarkets with a 
consistent and year-round supply of locally 
grown produce. This financing enables the 
continued rapid national expansion of 
BrightFarms’ network of local and 
sustainable farms.
Green bonds and environmental financing
The green bond market was active in 2018 
driven by a combination of new and repeat 
issuers. Green bonds remain a valuable and 
attractive means of financing green projects. 
European issuers continue to drive issuance, 
but there was significant activity in North 
America and Asia as well. 2018 also saw 
increased issuance of social and sustainability 
bonds, illustrating how the market continues 
to expand and diversify. Barclays helped raise 
$5.16bn in Green, Social and Sustainable 
Bonds in FY2018 according to Dealogic, with 
the third year of growth in this space with 
almost twice the volume from 2016, up from 
$4.73bn in 2017 and $2.24bn in 2016.
Green and sustainable loans have continued to 
grow in 2018 and Barclays has been active in 
contributing to industry groups developing 
standardised approaches and establishing  
principles, including the Loan Market 
Association (LMA) and the Loan Syndications 
and Trading Association (LSTA). We participated 
in 20 transactions during 2018, primarily in 
Europe and the UK, and were able to transfer our 
expertise to the US in structuring the first 
Sustainability-linked Revolving Credit Facility for 
a US borrower (see case study below).
Green Products
Responding to our customers’ and clients’ 
demand for more sustainable financing 
solutions, we have also expanded our existing 
suite of Green Products.
Barclays develops first 
sustainability-linked credit 
facilities in the US
Barclays’ Social Impact Banking Group 
(see page 46) was created in 2018 with 
support from our Social Innovation Facility. 
As a result of the Group’s activities, Barclays 
acted as the sole sustainability structuring 
agent on the first syndicated sustainability-
linked revolving credit facility for a US 
corporate borrower. The aggregate US$1.4bn 
of new facilities enable longstanding client 
CMS Energy and its primary subsidiary 
Consumers Energy (CMS) to reduce its loan 
interest rate payable through meeting 
defined targets related to environmental 
sustainability, specifically renewable energy 
generation. In addition to the structuring 
role, Barclays served as a Joint Lead Arranger 
and lender for the facilities.
We anticipate that sustainability-
linked structures will continue to 
gain traction in the market, 
especially among borrowers 
such as CMS that have explicit 
and forward thinking 
environmental objectives. 
Claire O’Connor,  
Head of Loan Capital Markets.
?? Green Asset Finance - Financing of green 
assets through lease purchase, finance and 
operating leases.
?? Green Loans - Lending for a variety of green 
and energy-efficiency projects.
?? Innovation Finance - Financing of up to 
£5m at competitive rates to support Green 
business innovation in small to medium-
sized UK businesses. 
?? Green Deposits - Allows our largest clients 
to earmark their cash balances against the 
green assets held on Barclays’ balance sheet.
?? Green Trade Loans - Supporting the green 
working capital needs of clients from 
procurement through to final sale of goods.
?? Barclays Green Home Mortgage  - Reward 
homebuyers who choose to buy an energy 
efficient new build home with lower interest 
rates on their mortgage.
 Green finance products
