home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 29
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Managing climate-related opportunities 
We are committed to supporting our clients in 
the transition to a low carbon economy, and 
are doing so in three broad areas:
?? Climate change mitigation investment – 
decarbonising operating models, from 
supply chain through to production;
?? Climate change adaptation investment 
– responding to physical risks presented by 
climate change-related extreme weather, 
including resource scarcity; and 
?? Strategic diversification and pivoting 
business models – advising clients on 
transactions and strategies to reposition 
their business and maintain 
competitiveness.
During 2018, we expanded our green product 
portfolio to new segments, including the 
launch of the first Green Mortgage for retail 
customers by a mainstream UK institution, 
added Green Trade Finance to our Corporate 
Banking green product set to build on the 
existing offering on green loans, deposits and 
asset finance and structured several innovative 
transactions such as the first Sustainability-
linked Revolving Credit Facility for a US 
borrower. 
We have also invested in our platform for 
Green and Sustainable Finance, creating the 
new senior Managing Director role of Global 
Head of Green Banking to lead our 
commercial efforts in supporting our clients 
with their environmental objectives and 
launched a Social Impact Banking group to 
provide strategic advice on corporate strategy 
and capital raising to positive-impact 
businesses and the growing group of investors 
aiming to allocate capital to this space. We 
also created a new Sustainable and Thematic 
Research team within our Equity Research 
business, to lead our efforts in providing 
innovative research for investors with an ESG 
or thematic focus, including climate change 
related issues. 
Increasing funding needs for the energy 
transition, and broader climate change 
mitigation and adaptation solutions will 
continue to provide opportunities to mobilise 
capital, advise clients and develop dedicated 
products.
Piloting climate-related scenario analysis 
The uncertainty and extended time horizons 
around climate change-related financial risk is 
the key challenge for banks and other financial 
firms. Particularly given concerns about the 
need to act quickly in this area, pooling 
expertise and sharing experience will be 
critical to overcoming the challenges currently 
present in scenario analysis. Lack of quality 
data is one of the biggest obstacles to 
evolution of best practice and our experience 
of piloting scenario analysis indicated the 
resource intensity and use of subjective 
assessment to manage data gaps where 
robust information is not yet available. 
Taking an explorative approach in 2018, 
Barclays assessed climate-related credit risk 
(and opportunity) alongside 15 other banks as 
part of the UNEP FI pilot project on both 
transition and physical risks. This was our first 
iteration of how scenario based climate-related 
risks could be integrated into the credit risk 
process, with testing of transition risk in Electric 
Utilities and Oil & Gas (sub-set Exploration & 
Production) until 2030 and 2040; and physical 
risk in the UK Mortgage Portfolio up to 2020 
and 2040. The pilot testing of these scenarios 
proved a useful exercise, and also indicated the 
current challenges with data and applying 
climate scenario methods over long-term time 
horizons.
Climate change scenarios 
highlight key elements of one 
possible future, they are not 
forecasts or predictions, 
rather they are hypothetical 
constructs; and are used to 
enhance strategic thinking.
Barclays Green Products
Responding to our customers’ and clients’ 
demand for more sustainable financing 
solutions, we expanded our existing suite of 
green products in 2018. This enables us to 
seize the opportunities in the market, while 
deploying our core financial service 
expertise to tackle key climate and social 
challenges. We expanded our green product 
portfolio, including the launch of the 
Barclays Green Home Mortgage, added 
green trade finance to our Corporate 
Banking green product set and structured 
several innovative transactions such as the 
first Sustainability-linked Revolving Credit 
Facility for a US borrower. See pages 44-46.
