22 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Environmental and social risk management
Company
We have a longstanding commitment to managing the environmental 
and social impact associated with our lending and business 
relationships, through our risk management framework. We continue 
to build upon this approach, in particular evolving our risk management 
processes on climate change and our approach to sensitive sectors. 
Approach 
Barclays has a strong and longstanding 
commitment to managing the environmental 
and social risks associated with its lending 
and financing activities. We recognise that the 
bank’s potential adverse environmental and 
social impacts are frequently indirect, arising 
from the provision of financial services to 
business customers operating in sensitive 
sectors. We believe that appropriate risk 
management of these environmental and 
social impacts is not only the right thing to do, 
but ensures the longevity of our business and 
our ability to serve our clients.
Environmental and social risks are governed 
and managed as part of Barclays’ credit risk 
and reputation risk management frameworks 
and processes. This includes the client 
transaction review process, which is managed 
by a dedicated Environmental Risk 
Management team, as part of the central 
Credit Risk Management function, as well as 
the Group Sustainability and Reputation risk 
teams. Our approach to environmental and 
social risk management is based on a 
combination of statements, standards and 
guidance. This enables us to adopt a robust 
approach, while maintaining the flexibility to 
consider potential clients and transactions on 
their respective merits.
We note the growing importance of climate 
change as a potential source of increased risk 
as we transition globally towards a low-carbon 
economy. We address this through our 
strategic approach outlined in our Energy and 
Climate Change Statement and have also 
continued to build an implementation plan to 
respond to the recommendations from the 
Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) – see pages 28 to 33. For 
information on how we approach climate-
related opportunties, see page 44.
Governance 
On behalf of the Barclays PLC Board, the Board 
Reputation Committee reviews and approves 
Barclays’ overall approach to Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) issues. Barclays 
Group Executive Committee provides 
management oversight of the Group’s 
environmental and social impact. This includes 
Barclays overall approach to managing 
environmental and social issues and the 
publication of external position statements on 
our approach to sensitive sectors.
The Group Credit Risk Director is responsible 
for the management of the credit risk impacts 
of environmental risks, which includes risks 
associated with climate change. Reviewed 
annually, the Environmental Risk Standard and 
supporting Coal Risk Appetite is approved by 
the Wholesale Credit Risk Management 
Committee.
Group Risk Committee: Proceed, decline or escalate to ExCo/Board Reputation Committee
Business/transaction review forum: Proceed, decline or escalate to Group Risk Committee
Sustainability and 
Reputation risk
Business teams
Credit Committee(s)
Client
Environmental risk:  
Reviews transaction,  
confirms support or  
escalates
Credit risk
Environmental and social risk assessment embedded in the transaction review process
