66 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Broader economic contributions
Society
Political contributions
Barclays is a politically neutral organisation 
and does not engage in party political 
campaigning or make party political 
donations. We do engage with Government 
on issues relevant to our business and ensure 
that any communication undertaken is 
honest, comprehensive and accurate. 
Barclays does not give any money for political 
purposes in the UK, the rest of the EU or 
outside of the EU, nor does it make any 
political donations to political parties or other 
political organisations, or to any independent 
election candidates, or incur any political 
expenditure.
In accordance with the US Federal Election 
Campaign Act, Barclays provides 
administrative support to a federal Political 
Action Committee (PAC) in the USA funded by 
the voluntary political contributions of eligible 
Barclays’ employees. The PAC is not controlled 
by Barclays and all decisions regarding the 
amounts and recipients of contributions are 
directed by a steering committee comprising 
employees eligible to contribute to the PAC.
Barclays complies with applicable laws and 
requirements in relation to the disclosure and 
publication of lobbying expenditure.We also 
comply with lobbying disclosure requirements 
in all of the jurisdictions in which they are 
applicable.
Barclays’ lobbying expenditure in the EU and 
US can be accessed on the EU Transparency 
Register at ec.europa.eu/
transparencyregister/public/consultation/
displaylobbyist.do, and the US Lobbying 
Disclosure Act Database at soprweb.senate.
gov/index.cfm
Trade associations
Barclays is a member of several trade 
associations globally. These associations work 
to represent their members and shape 
industry’s collective response to public policy 
issues. A summary of the key associations in 
which we participate is also available on our 
website at barclays.com/citizenship/
reports-andpublications/public-policy.html
Memberships and signatories
Barclays is a member of a number of 
associations (such as industry associations) 
and national or international advocacy 
organisations in which the organisation:
?? holds a position on the governance body
?? participates in projects or committees
?? provides substantive funding
?? beyond routine membership dues
?? views membership as strategic.
At the end of 2018 these were as follows:
?? Banking Environment Initiative
?? Equator Principles
?? United Nations Environment Programme
?? Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)
?? Thun Group
?? Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).
Additionally Barclays Asset Management Ltd 
and Barclays UK retirement fund are 
signatories of the UN Principles of Responsible 
Banking Initative (UN PRI).
