48 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Engaging on sustainable finance
We continue to engage with industry groups 
and policymakers on enhancing sustainable 
finance flows and providing a supportive 
policy framework. This includes supporting 
the UNEPFI Responsible Banking Principles, 
the IIF Sustainable Finance group, the 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures, the Climate Bonds Initiative, the 
ICMA Green Bonds initiative, and LMA/LSTA 
working group for green/sustainable 
financing amongst a number of other Green 
Finance initiatives, in the UK, the EU and 
across the globe. 
We’ve also advocated a number of specific 
policy changes to mobilise green and social 
financing, including that the UK Government 
issue its own Green Bond as a clear signal of 
support to the marketplace. We also support 
the development of further mechanisms to 
reduce the risk to financial intermediaries and 
consequently the cost of lending. These can 
vary from guarantee schemes, to reduced 
levies or lower capital requirements for 
qualifying transactions.
We also advocate for the enhancement and 
harmonisation of non-financial reporting 
frameworks and taxonomies including 
common standards on green bonds. 
Principles for Responsible Banking
Barclays is one of the 28 founding banks of 
the Principles for Responsible Banking under 
the United Nations Environment Programme- 
Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) which launched in 
November 2018. 
The Principles are in a consultation phase until 
May 2019, with a final version to be launched 
in September 2019 at the UN in New York. We 
support the finalisation of the Principles and 
will work to implement them over time.
Client engagement 
In our relationships with our clients we have 
held over 3,000 meetings in the Corporate 
Bank alone to engage on the Green agenda, 
which is supported by our framework for 
Regulatory, Reputational, and Commercial 
drivers. We recognise that clients are 
increasingly focused  on ESG issues in their 
own businesses and are experiencing 
increased expectations and demands from 
stakeholders such as shareholders, customers, 
regulators and employees, to drive their 
sustainability performance.
Client and industry engagement 
Customers and clients 
