home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 03
Context and approach
O
ur focus areas
A
dditional inform
ation
Leadership team
Delivering on our strategic priorities 
Chief Executive
We value the trust that our clients, customers, 
and wider society place in us to serve their 
best interests every day. We recognise the role 
that we play in driving sustainable economic 
growth and societal progress, and we take 
that responsibility seriously.
Our success has always been inextricably 
linked to the progress of the people, 
communities and businesses that we serve. 
And, it is only in an inclusive society, which 
uses its resources in a sustainable manner, 
that our clients and customers and, in turn, 
our business, can thrive. So, strengthening our 
approach to Environmental, Social and 
Governance issues makes good business 
sense. 
It is by focusing on our core products, 
services, and relationships, that we can make 
the greatest positive impact. We are 
responding to global challenges like climate 
change and global energy demand by 
evaluating our financing of carbon intensive 
energy sources, while proactively supporting 
the development of green financial products 
and services. We are contributing to inclusive 
prosperity by enhancing the skills and 
meaningful employment opportunities of 
people in our local communities. And we are 
investing in innovation from our best asset – 
our colleagues – to test and scale new 
business opportunities that tackle social and 
environmental challenges.
As I meet colleagues from across Barclays, I 
feel incredibly proud of the role that they are 
playing to strengthen our local and global 
communities. It’s their energy and spirit that 
shows Barclays at its best.
Delivering on our Shared Growth Ambition 
In 2016 we launched our Shared Growth 
Ambition which set out the focus areas where 
we could play to our strengths as a financial 
institution, while achieving the greatest 
positive impact on the economy and 
communities. 
We had good momentum over the last three 
years with progress across our range of 
community investment programmes, which 
focussed on three key areas of access to 
employment, digital and financial 
empowerment, and social and environmental 
financing. We also met or exceeded our 2018 
annual targets for The Barclays Way training 
and carbon emissions reduction. See page 4 
for a summary of 2018 performance. 
Barclays recognises our role in serving society,  
and our success as a business has always been 
inextricably linked to the progress of the people, 
communities and businesses that we serve.  
It is by focusing on our core products and services, 
and our relationships that we can make the greatest 
positive impact. We will continue to identify new 
opportunities to integrate these considerations into 
the work we do every day to help customers and 
clients, colleagues and society to rise.
James E. Staley
Group Chief Executive
