home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 25
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Energy and Climate Change Statement
Climate change represents one of the 
greatest challenges faced by the world today. 
Banks have an important role to play in 
ensuring that the world’s energy needs are 
met while helping to limit the threat that 
climate change poses to people and to the 
natural environment.
Our aim is to help facilitate the transition to 
less carbon intensive sources of energy, 
while supporting economic development 
and growth in society by helping to ensure 
the world’s energy needs are met 
responsibly. 
We expect that there will be a significant 
shift away from carbon based fuel 
consumption in the long term and we 
expect our financing activity to reflect that 
change. In most scenarios, however, oil and 
gas are expected to continue to be the main 
source of energy for decades to come. The 
reliance on gas as a transition fuel, and a 
partial replacement for oil, is expected to 
increase over this time period.
Accordingly, we will place restrictions on our 
exposure in some carbon intensive sectors, 
such as thermal coal. We will however 
support oil and gas clients that operate in an 
environmentally and socially responsible 
way, in order to meet the world’s energy 
needs.
We conduct Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) 
on a case-by-case basis on clients in these 
sensitive energy sectors, and will consider 
the following factors as a minimum:
Thermal coal industry market conditions 
have changed considerably over recent years 
and many countries, including the UK, 
Canada and some states in the USA, have 
announced their intention to move away 
from coal combustion in line with the Paris 
agreement. 
We believe that the increase in new, efficient 
technology, and the diversification of the 
world’s energy mix to include less carbon-
intensive fuel sources will continue to drive 
an overall decline in global thermal coal 
demand over the next several decades. We 
also recognise, however, that certain 
countries’ energy and growth needs will 
continue to require thermal coal over this 
period, and that thermal coal will continue 
to represent a component of the overall 
energy mix for the medium term.
Barclays will continue to reduce credit 
exposure to clients that derive the majority 
of their revenue from thermal coal mining 
and power generation clients (where more 
than 50% of their power generation mix is 
coal-fired). We aim to continue reducing our 
lending exposure to such entities over the 
medium term, as thermal coal demand 
declines in proportion to other energy fuel 
sources globally.  
Barclays has no appetite to support project 
finance transactions for the development of 
greenfield thermal coal mines anywhere in 
the world, or to enable the construction or 
material expansion of coal-fired power 
stations anywhere in the world. 
Barclays will continue to provide general 
corporate financing for current corporate 
clients that own and operate existing 
thermal coal mines and coal-fired power 
stations. However, we will review these 
arrangements on a case by case basis in line 
with our EDD requirements. 
Mountain Top Removal (MTR) coal mining 
refers to surface coal mining (and the 
associated reclamation operations) that 
remove entire coal seams running through 
the upper fraction of a mountain, ridge, or 
hill, by removing all of the overburden and 
creating a level plateau or gently rolling 
contour with no high-walls remaininga.
Barclays recognises that MTR in the 
Appalachian region of the USA is a legal 
mining method, overseen by a robust 
regulatory framework. MTR has also, 
however, been subject to intense political, 
judicial and regulatory debate over the last 
decade, due to its negative environmental 
and social impacts on one hand, and positive 
local benefits on the other.
Barclays does not directly finance MTR 
projects or developments; we apply EDD to 
all credit and capital markets facilities 
involving clients which practice MTR; and 
provision of financial support to companies 
which are significant producers of MTR-
sourced coal will be agreed by exception 
only, subject to specific criteria related to the 
transition away from MTR production and/
or for reclamation and restoration purposes. 
 
Arctic oil and gas refers to new exploration 
and extraction of oil and gas in the area 
within the Arctic Circle which is subject to 
sea ice, and includes the Arctic National 
Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and the Coastal 
Plainsb. The ANWR is a particularly fragile 
and pristine ecosystem which is central to 
the livelihoods and culture of local 
indigenous peoples.
Any client conducting new exploration of or 
extraction of Arctic oil and gas will be 
subject to EDD. 
Additionally, Barclays will conduct EDD on 
any financing transaction directly connected 
with the exploration or extraction of oil or 
gas in the Arctic. Under the EDD framework, 
we would not expect such project finance 
proposals to meet our criteria.
Oil sands refers to naturally occurring 
deposits of water and clay, containing a 
heavy, viscous oil called bitumen.  Canada 
produces 70% of the world’s oil sands crude 
which contributes about 0.15% of global 
greenhouse gasesc.
The development of Canada’s oil sands 
reserves is Canadian government policy and, 
as such, the Canadian Oil Sands industry is 
highly regulated.  New technology is being 
actively deployed to extract oil sands and to 
improve environmental performance.
Any transaction in which the use of 
proceeds is for the exploration, extraction, 
transportation (including the construction of 
pipelines to carry oil sands), or processing of 
oil sands, is subject to EDD.
Oil sands clients and transactions which are 
subject to EDD must demonstrate 
consideration of environmental and social 
impacts and risks, and demonstrate: 
compliance with all legal, regulatory and 
permitting requirements in the regions that 
they operate; continuous reduction in 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) intensity, on a 
lifecycle basis; and the minimisation of direct 
environmental impacts.
The full statement can be downloaded from 
home.barclays/citizenship
Notes
a Surface Mining Control & Reclamation Act (SMCRA 1977), available at https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2012-title30-vol3/pdf/CFR-2012-title30-vol3-sec716-3.pdf 
b The Arctic Circle is defined by the National Snow & Ice Data Center, available at https://nsidc.org/cryosphere/arctic-meteorology/arctic.html  
c Environment and Climate Change Canada 2018, available at https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change.html 
