28 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Taskforce on climate-related financial disclosures
TCFD implementation update 
Barclays is a member of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and signed the 
Statement of Support for the TCFD Recommendations, which 
were published in June 2017. This section outlines the progress 
Barclays has made to date in adopting these voluntary 
recommendations, and presents our plan on how we will achieve 
alignment to the recommendations over time. 
Governance ?? Climate-related issues considered by Board RepCo
?? Accountable Executives identified
?? Established TCFD Implementation Forum
?? Align with and implement any regulatory guidelines on 
climate risk governance
?? Continue to embed within existing risk frameworks and 
other governance forums
?? TCFD Implementation Forum to continue to drive 
firm-wide coordination
Strategy ?? Enhanced Green Banking platform and green product 
suite to include mortgages and trade finance
?? Published Energy and Climate Change Statement
?? Participated in UNEP F1 Phase 1 Pilot, and applied climate 
scenario based stress testing to three pilot portfolios in 
Electric Utilities, Oil & Gas (subsector, Exploration and 
Production), and UK Residential Real Estate.
?? Incorporate qualitative transition risk analysis by sector 
into top down climate risk assessment processes and risk 
appetite setting
?? Incorporate analysis of material climate-related opportunities 
into Barclays’ strategy and financial planning processes.
?? Further enhance capabilities in relation to climate risk scenario 
analysis, through extending into qualitative analyses on 
transition risks for relevant sectors. These reports will provide a 
top-down view of climate risks when setting risk appetite, as 
well as helping to shape our scenario analysis capabilities.
Risk 
Management
?? Embedded climate risk into Credit Risk processes and 
standards, including into the Client Assessment 
Standard and Environmental Risk Standard
?? Climate-related risk update provided to over 240 Credit 
Sanctioners.
?? Initiated an internal TCFD Phase 1 Risk Working Group.
?? Determine short, medium and long term climate-related risks, 
outlining what risks i.e. transition or physical are expected to 
arise in which time horizon; and by sector and geography
?? Explore how climate-related risk should be integrated into 
relevant Principal Risks within the frameworks, policies and 
standards. 
Metrics & 
Targets
?? New carbon emissions target of 80% reduction by 2025 
and committed to RE100
?? Started engaging with industry forums on developing 
consistent climate related metrics, particularly as related 
to risk management
?? Consider the development of potential internal and 
external targets
?? As consensus grows and financial sector guidance 
becomes more available and standardised, develop and 
test relevant climate-related metrics
Focus areas (2019/2020)Progress to date (2017/18)TCFD Theme
The TCFD recommendations aim to improve 
the disclosure of information to allow 
investors, regulators and other stakeholders to 
better assess and manage the risks and 
opportunities resulting from climate change; 
we rely on appropriate disclosures from clients 
to inform our own climate-related sector risk 
management. Clear understanding and 
analysis of potential financial risks and 
opportunities in short, medium and longer 
term horizons is still at an early stage. We 
anticipate that disclosures will continue to 
develop over time, supported by improved 
analytical tools, data and market practice. This 
will support Barclays as a user of climate 
disclosures across industry sectors and 
subsequently inform our own disclosures as 
a preparer.
In addition to general guidance for all sectors, 
the TCFD includes specific recommendations 
for banks. These include alignment with 
traditional banking industry risk categories 
such as credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, 
and operational risk. Banks are also 
encouraged to provide information on credit 
exposures to ‘carbon-related’ assets and the 
amount of lending and other financing 
connected with climate-related opportunities. 
The guidance recognises that detailed 
standardised definitions are not yet 
established and Barclays is working with a 
range of forums to support more detailed 
technical guidance in these areas.
TCFD implementation programme overview
The TCFD Implementation Forum, was 
established as a senior management forum in 
late 2017 to provide oversight and drive 
implementation of the TCFD recommendations. 
The Forum has representation from across the 
bank, including: Group CEO Office; Green 
Banking; Strategy; Compliance; Corporate 
Relations, including Reputation Risk; Credit Risk; 
Investor Relations and business teams from 
both Barclays International and Barclays UK.
See below for a summary of progress to date and 
areas of focus for future years. We have increased 
disclosures within relevant documents in the 
Barclays PLC Annual Report suite. 
