home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 21
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Barclays Joint Operation Centre
The Barclays Joint Operations Centre (JOC) is 
an operational hub of security, resilience and 
defence colleagues from across Barclays 
with the mission to defend and protect our 
clients, colleagues, technology, data and 
assets, ensuring a resilient bank.
Teams detect, respond and inform on all 
significant security and non-security incidents. 
The JOC operations run 24 hours a day, every 
day of the year from three locations globally 
and is staffed by incident and crisis 
managers along with experts from the 
Security Office, Fraud, Cyber and Financial 
Crime, Corporate Real Estate, Legal, 
Compliance, and Communications.
IT failures and resilience
Recent years have seen significant advances in 
technology that have delivered enormous 
benefits in customer convenience, safety and 
functionality in banking and financial services. 
Barclays has embraced these changes to offer 
unprecedented ease of access and availability, 
increased security, enhanced economic crime 
detection and prevention, automation of 
processes to reduce errors and greatly 
increased speed of processing requests.
To meet customer expectations and guard 
against IT failures that have widespread 
impact, we have invested heavily in our IT 
infrastructure. We organise and run our 
systems to enable our customers to use 
different channels interchangeably and 
seamlessly so there are: alternative channels 
available; systems are duplicated; and there 
are stand-in processing arrangements in the 
event of need.
Barclays’ multi-channel strategy, not only 
provides customer choice and convenience, 
but also ensures customers have alternative 
access to our services, in the event of 
unavoidable outages that affect their preferred 
channel. Very specifically, these channels 
(mobile, online, phone, etc.) are supported on 
different technology systems to ensure we can 
continue to service our customers through one 
channel in the event of difficulty in another.
On 20 September 2018, when Barclays 
experienced an operational incident in which 
some of our systems were subject to 
substantial disruption, our customers were 
still able to use core features on Mobile 
Banking and could use their cards and our 
ATM network throughout.
Barclays processes approximately 25,000 
technology changes every month to ensure our 
systems stay ahead of a range of threats, 
trends, and customer demands. Technology 
has created a new dimension in competition as 
firms compete to provide the best features and 
greatest functionality through innovation in 
digital products and services for customers. 
This, in turn, requires ongoing changes to our 
systems. At the same time, we face an ever 
present and growing threat from cyber 
criminals trying to disrupt our systems and we 
must also respond rapidly to regulatory 
requirements to comply with changes to 
regulation and the law. Whilst the vast majority 
of the thousands of technology changes are 
completed successfully, very occasionally, they 
can result in unexpected outcomes which may 
impact our service delivery.
There is also an increasingly interconnected 
ecosystem of technology and infrastructure 
providers on which financial services providers 
are dependent, including broadband, mobile 
data networks, and other services.
We regret any instance of service disruption to 
customers and remain focused on reducing 
the volume of operational incidents, through 
continued investment in our resilience and the 
strengthening of controls relating to 
technology. Nearly one quarter of Barclays’ 
global workforce of 85,000 is dedicated to 
technology and security. Just as we enable our 
customers to transact 24/7, we seek to ensure 
around-the-clock security and resilience.
We believe our approach is proving successful. 
Operational incidents caused by technology 
are becoming less frequent across Barclays 
year-on-year, with a 13 per cent reduction in 
the last year, which reflects our continued 
investment in resilience.
