home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 47
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Overall approach to responsible investment
Responsible Investment and Impact investing
Impact Investing platform and products
Barclays Asset Management Limited has been 
a signatory of the United Nations’ Principles 
for Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2016. 
This is a global collaborative network of 
investors which encourages the incorporation 
of environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) factors into investment and ownership 
decisions. As a signatory we include ESG 
factors into our own decision-making which 
aligns with our long-term investment horizon 
and our investment process.
We are committed to seeking to deliver the 
best possible risk-adjusted returns for our 
clients and believe responsible investment 
supports this aim. We believe ESG 
considerations capture non-financial 
information that could affect financial 
performance. Considering these ESG factors, 
and consequently a broader set of data, we 
believe enables investors to make a better 
judgement about the financial performance 
and longer term viability of an investment. 
Therefore, as part of our investment process, 
we seek to incorporate any foreseeable risks 
and opportunities that arise from material ESG 
factors.
To manage and continually improve our 
efforts by taking into account international 
best practice, in our Barclays Investments 
Solutions Limited organisation, we have 
established a Responsible Investment Forum 
to provide oversight and guidance. This Forum 
comprises of key stakeholders from across 
this investment organisation and is chaired by 
the Head of Impact Investing. It reports into 
our Investment Committee, which has 
accountability for the investment process and 
is chaired by the Chief Investment Officer. 
The responsible investing policy is available at: 
barclays.co.uk/wealth-management/important-
information/responsible-investing-policy/
Barclays public PRI Reports are available  
at the PRI website unpri.org/ 
searchresults?qkeyword=&parametrics= 
WVSECTION%7cSignatories
Integrating impact into investing 
In the rapidly evolving field of impact 
investing, Barclays has become a globally 
recognised player with deep expertise 
acknowledged by the industry and 
government. Moreover, we have constructed a 
foundation for robust client offerings across 
our Smart Investor, UK Wealth Management, 
and Private Bank and Overseas Services 
businesses. 
Beyond adding impact products to our 
offering, we have embarked on a programme 
to integrate impact considerations throughout 
our investment process. We are assessing 
products for their potential for financial 
returns as well as impact considerations 
across asset classes, including: equities, fixed 
income, structured notes, private assets and 
direct investments. In providing training for 
our relationship managers, we are enabling 
conversations with clients to express their 
impact preferences. 
Within our Private Bank, we have launched 
sustainable investment strategies and 
portfolios that aim to generate attractive 
long-term capital growth through a portfolio 
of holdings that explicitly avoid controversial 
industries and companies that do not meet 
minimum ESG expectations. Additionally, the 
strategy targets companies that generate a 
portion of their revenues from positive 
activities that help to address at least one of 
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. 
Furthermore, these portfolios include a fossil 
fuels restriction that removes companies that 
have proven and probable coal reserves and/
or oil and natural gas reserves used for energy 
purposes. 
In playing a market building role, we hear from 
across our peers that there is a disconnect 
between investors who have expressed an 
interest in impact, and those that are actually 
investing. Therefore, leveraging our 
behavioural finance expertise, in June we 
published a whitepaper - Investor motivations 
for impact: A behavioural examination – to 
help the industry unlock this latent demand. It 
is a unique, in-depth examination of individual 
investors which examines their motivations, 
attitudes, preferences and the role of their 
emotions. 
Similarly, we are serving on the Advisory 
Group to the UK Government on Growing a 
Culture of Social Impact Investment to 
support the growth of the industry across the 
UK. In addtion, in 2018 we have sponsored 
initiatives such as The Impact Management 
Project – a global effort coordinated by Bridges 
Fund Management’s Impact+ team of over 
1000 organisations to establish a common 
language for impact investing, and Good 
Money Week – the UK’s leading campaign to 
raise awareness of sustainable, responsible 
and ethical finance options in the general 
public. 
A full copy of the research is available: 
barclays.co.uk/content/dam/documents/
wealth-management/investments/impact-
investing-product/investor-motivations-for-
impact.pdf
A growing number of our clients, individuals and families as well as 
charities and organisations, are seeking both to protect and grow their 
assets, and to make a positive contribution to our world. Recognising the 
impact that every investment makes, Barclays has continued to integrate 
these considerations into our investment process and services to clients. 
