home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 33
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
TCFD Index
TCFD implementation update 
Links to relevant information against each of the TCFD themes and recommended disclosures across the Barclays PLC Annual report suite.
Governance ?? Chairman’s statement Annual Report page 4
?? Board Reputation Committee 2018 Update
Directors Report pages 73 to 76 
?? Governance overview 
ESG Report page 14 
Strategy ?? TCFD summary overview and approach to energy and 
climate change Strategic Report pages 26 to 27 
?? Chief Executive Introduction
ESG Report pages 3 to 5  
?? Green and Sustainable Finance 
?? Managing carbon footprint in operations and supply chain
ESG Report pages 44 to 46 
ESG Report pages 36 to 38 
Risk Management ?? Summary of our TCFD Disclosure
?? Risk Review, Material existing and emerging risks, (iii) credit 
risk (vii) Reputation Risk
Annual Report pages 26 to 27
 
Annual Report pages 134 and 136 
?? Management of credit risk and the internal ratings-based 
approach, Environmental Risk Pillar 3 Report 
?? Social and Environmental Risk Management
?? TCFD Implementation update
ESG Report pages 22 to 27 
 
ESG Report pages 28 to 33
Climate-related 
Metrics & Targets
?? Social and environmental financing, including green bonds
?? Green Products 
?? Treasury Green Bond portfolio 
?? Managing carbon footprint in operations and supply chain
?? Risk Review - Credit risk concentrations by industry sector 
Annual Report pages 165 to 166 
In addition to our AR reporting suite, TCFD-relevant information can be found at the following:
?? Scenario analysis: See p.51 of the UNEP FI report, Extending our Horizons unepfi.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/EXTENDING-
OUR-HORIZONS.pdf
?? Position statements: our position statements outline our approach to climate-sensitive sectors. These can be found at home.barclays/
citizenship
?? CDP: Our CDP response contains detailed climate disclosures against questions modelled on the TCFD recommendations: cdp.net/en/
responses/1502 (registration required)
ReportThemeTCFD Theme
