Notes 
The terms Barclays or Group refer to Barclays PLC together 
with its subsidiaries. The abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ 
represent millions and thousands of millions of Pounds 
Sterling respectively; the abbreviations ‘$m’ and ‘$bn’ 
represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars 
respectively; and the abbreviations ‘€m’ and ‘€bn’ represent 
millions and thousands of millions of Euros respectively.
Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at 
the given point in time. Consistent with its usual practice, 
Barclays expects that from time to time over the coming 
quarter it will meet with investors globally to discuss these 
results and other matters relating to the Group.
Forward-looking statements 
This document contains certain forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Barclays Group. 
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a 
guarantee of future performance and that actual results or 
other financial condition or performance measures could differ 
materially from those contained in the forward-looking 
statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified 
by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current 
facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as 
‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, 
‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or 
other words of similar meaning. Examples of forward-looking 
statements include, among others, statements or guidance 
regarding or relating to the Barclays Group’s future financial 
position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, 
business strategy, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, 
payment of dividends (including dividend payout ratios and 
expected payment strategies), projected levels of growth in the 
banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, any 
commitments and targets, estimates of capital expenditures, 
plans and objectives for future operations, projected employee 
numbers, IFRS 9 impacts and other statements that are not 
historical fact. By their nature, forward-looking statements 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events 
and circumstances. These may be affected by changes in 
legislation, the development of standards and interpretations 
under International Financial Reporting Standards including the 
continuing impact of IFRS 9 implementation, evolving practices 
with regard to the interpretation and application of accounting 
and regulatory standards, the outcome of current and future 
legal proceedings and regulatory investigations, future levels of 
conduct provisions, the policies and actions of governmental 
and regulatory authorities, geopolitical risks and the impact of 
competition. In addition, factors including (but not limited to) 
the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other 
regulatory rules applicable to past, current and future periods; 
UK, US, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and business 
conditions; the effects of any volatility in credit markets; market 
related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign 
exchange rates; effects of changes in valuation of credit market 
exposures; changes in valuation of issued securities; volatility in 
capital markets; changes in credit ratings of any entities within 
the Barclays Group or any securities issued by such entities; the 
potential for one or more countries exiting the Eurozone; 
instability as a result of the exit by the United Kingdom from the 
European Union and the disruption that may subsequently result 
in the UK and globally; and the success of future acquisitions, 
disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these 
influences and factors are beyond the Barclays Group’s control. 
As a result, the Barclays Group’s actual future results, dividend 
payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially 
from the plans, goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the 
Barclays Group’s forward-looking statements. Additional risks 
and factors which may impact the Barclays Group’s future 
financial condition and performance are identified in our filings 
with the SEC (including, without limitation, our Annual Report 
on form 20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018), 
which are available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Subject 
to our obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of 
the United Kingdom and the United States in relation to 
disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation 
to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or 
otherwise. 
This report is printed on Revive 100 Offset, made from 100% 
FSC Recycled certified fibre sourced from de-inked 
post-consumer waste. The printer and the manufacturing mill 
are both credited with ISO 14001 Environmental Management 
Systems Standard and both are FSC certified. The mill also 
holds EMAS, the EU Eco-label. Revive 100 Offset is a Carbon 
balanced paper which means that the carbon emissions 
associated with its manufacture have been measured and 
offset using the World Land Trust’s Carbon Balanced scheme. 
