44 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Access to financing
£27.3bnr
2018 £27.3bn
2017 £31.7bn
2016 £30.5bn
2018 Financing  
by region
 £bn
 Americas 10.0
 UK & Europe 15.9
 Asia 0.5
 ROW 0.9
2018 Financing  
by type
 £bn
 Social 21.9
 Green 5.3
Sustainable financing
With financing requirements of $90trn in 
sustainable infrastructure by 2030 to meet the 
Paris climate agreement, and an estimated 
$5-7trn of annual investment required in 
developing countries to meet the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) by 2030, there is growing demand and 
opportunities for our business to act as a 
financial intermediary and develop products 
for both investors and borrowers. 
We expanded our green product portfolio to 
new segments, including the launch of the 
Barclays Green Home Mortgage, the first green 
mortgage for retail customers by a mainstream 
UK bank, added Green Trade Finance to our 
Corporate Banking green product set to build on 
the existing offering of loans, deposits and asset 
finance and structured several innovative 
transactions such as the first Sustainability-
linked Revolving Credit Facility for a US borrower.
We have invested in our platform for Green and 
Sustainable Finance during 2018, creating a new 
senior role for Global Head of Green Banking to 
lead our commercial efforts in supporting our 
clients with their environmental objectives, and 
launched a Social Impact Banking group to 
provide strategic advice on corporate strategy 
and capital raising to positive-impact businesses 
and the growing group of investors aiming to 
allocate capital to this space. We also created a 
new Sustainable and Thematic Research team 
within our Equity Research business, to lead our 
efforts in providing innovative research for 
investors with an ESG or thematic focus. 
Overall social and environmental financing 
Barclays continued to provide financing 
solutions across environmental and social 
segments while expanding the range of 
products available to customers and clients. In 
2018 we facilitated £27.3bn of social and 
environmental financing across our business 
(2017 £31.7bn). This year-over-year decrease 
reflects market conditions, including the 
impact of changes in U.S. tax law which 
caused certain qualifying clients to accelerate 
new debt issuance from 2018 into 2017. 
Underlying environmental financing increased 
11% to £5.3bn, driven by a range of capital 
markets transactions and a growing volume 
from our dedicated green product portfolio. 
Renewable energy capacity, and energy 
efficiency activities in particular have attracted 
the bulk of environmental financing.
Supranational, national and regional 
development institutions continue to be a key 
driver of the £21.9bn of financing within social 
segments, which also includes transactions 
that support infrastructure, healthcare, 
education and housing. 
Our financing volume is tracked and screened 
using Barclays Impact Eligibility framework, 
which provides clear environmental and social 
inclusion criteria to track and categorise 
financing volumes, which includes both labelled 
green and social transactions and a wider use of 
proceeds analysis against eligible environmental 
and social themes. The framework was 
developed in collaboration with Sustainalytics, a 
global provider of ESG and  corporate 
governance research, ratings and analytics.
Further information can be found online at 
home.barclays/esg
Our financing is comprised of activity across 
multiple sectors, including businesses and 
governments which generate a positive 
environmental and social outcome, including 
financing for supranational agencies, 
municipalities, healthcare systems, 
universities, social housing authorities, and 
other not for profit organisations. 
Our presence in the Sovereign, Supranational 
and Agency (SSA), alongside municipal 
financing for social infrastructure and debt 
financing for companies in the energy sector, 
continues to be a key driver. Selected 
transactions in 2018 include:
?? Barclays helped International Development 
Association (IDA), which is part of the 
World Bank Group, issue their inaugural 
bond for $1.5bn. Proceeds from the issue, 
which was 5x oversubscribed, will be used 
to boost economic growth, reduce 
inequality and improve living conditions for 
people in developing countries.
?? Barclays helped develop and execute the first 
US based sustainably-linked credit facilities 
for CMS Energy, a leading US electric and 
natural gas utility provider. The aggregate 
$1.4bn of new credit facilities enables the 
company to reduce its loan interest rate 
payable through meeting defined targets 
related to environmental sustainability. 
Providing sustainable finance solutions
Customers and clients
We have continued to build our capability to provide financing 
solutions that deliver positive social and environmental impact  
in areas including renewable energy, water and low carbon 
technologies, social infrastructure and development institutions. 
We have also developed a range of new green products and built 
our overall platform for green and sustainable finance in 2018.
r Subject to limited assurance by KPMG. Refer to page 68
