26 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Company
Environmental and social risk management
physical impact of climate change. Risk 
colleagues are provided examples of transition 
risks e.g. imposition of a carbon tax, caps on 
greenhouse gas emissions at operating sites 
and the rise of disruptive technologies which 
may impact business revenues; and physical 
risks, e.g. increased temperatures impact 
labour, flood risk, droughts and storms. In 
2018 we provided bespoke training to credit 
risk managers across Barclays on 
environmental and social risk assessments, 
including climate change, relevant to their 
respective markets, reinforcing awareness of 
when to refer specific transactions.
Reputational Risk 
As a transition risk, climate-related reputation 
risk can arise from shifts in consumer 
preferences and increased stakeholder concern 
about sensitive sectors. During 2018, we 
reviewed our approach to energy and climate 
change, and our involvement and practices in 
certain ‘sensitive sectors’. A recurring topic in 
our discussions has been climate change and 
the challenges for business in balancing the 
need to maintain the supply of energy to 
support economic growth and prosperity while 
also meeting the goals of the Paris Accord. This 
includes Barclays’ approach to financing 
businesses which operate in sectors that are 
sensitive because of their relative carbon 
intensity or local environmental impact. This 
has resulted in the publication of a policy 
statement on our approach to energy and 
climate change, as well as statements on World 
Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands. 
Premises and Business Continuity 
Our premises and business continuity teams 
address climate-related risks within location 
selection and the development of contingency 
plans, particularly as related to the physical 
risks of extreme weather events. This 
framework evaluates long-term flood risk and 
seismic risk and ensures mitigating controls 
are in place as part of the wider operational 
controls infrastructure maintenance 
environment.
Environmental risks are addressed within the 
Barclays Group Property Standard, to which a 
new risk was added in 2018 entitled ‘harm to 
the environment’. The standard outlines the 
role of our engineering team in managing 
activities or incidents which could result in 
environmental harm. It further outlines 
Barclays’ approach to environmental 
management, such as through site reviews, 
and environmental performance reporting, 
including carbon emissions data. 
Barclays’ Resilience Client Statement outlines 
Barclays’ programme to maintain services, 
and how a robust response to crises is 
implemented, including crises resulting from 
weather-related events. 
For further information on how Barclays 
addresses climate change impacts, please see 
our Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) disclosure on pages 28-33
Engagement
We participate in various industry associations 
and bodies that aim to improve practices and 
understanding of the environmental and 
social risks associated with financing and 
transactions. For example, Barclays is an active 
member of the Equator Principles Social Risks 
Working Group, UNEP FI Social Issues 
Advisory Group, Thun Group and the Banking 
Environment Initiative’s Soft Commodities 
Compact. We contribute to industry 
discussions and aim to incorporate best 
practice points in our own risk management 
processes.
Transaction review in 2018
Credit teams, Environmental Risk 
Management and Group Sustainability teams 
review transactions that relate to sensitive 
sectors or regions, or where deemed 
appropriate. Barclays’ approach to 
environmental credit risk management 
addresses both direct and indirect risks. We 
undertake due diligence for agribusiness, 
forestry and forest products, infrastructure, oil 
and gas (conventional and unconventional), 
coal fired power, hydropower, nuclear power, 
and sensitive mining.
During 2018, the Environmental Risk 
Management tea reviewed 219 transactions 
were reviewed for social and environmental 
risks; none of those transactions fell within the 
scope of the Equator Principles.
See the charts on page 27 for a breakdown of 
2018 transaction reviews by region, sector and 
product type.
Sector-specific  
financing restrictions
Our position statements establish our 
requirements and expectations of clients 
in sectors with significant environmental 
and social impacts. They also outline the 
activities that we will not finance, which 
include:
?? Thermal Coal – We have no appetite to 
support project finance transactions to:
 – Develop greenfield thermal coal 
mines anywhere in the world
 – Construct or materially expand 
thermal coal-fired power stations 
anywhere in the world
?? Forestry and Palm Oil – We will not 
provide financial services to:
 – Companies involved in illegal logging 
or trading activities
 – Companies that use illegal or 
uncontrolled fire in forestry or 
plantation operations
 – Companies that convert or degrade 
primary tropical forests, High 
Conservation Value (HCV) or High 
Carbon Stock (HCS) areas and 
peatlands
?? World Heritage Sites and Ramsar  
Wetlands – We will not finance:
 – Projects in World Heritage Sites 
(unless approved by the host 
country and UNESCO)
 – Projects in Ramsar Wetlands (unless 
approved by the host country)
?? Defence – We will not finance:
 – Trade in, or manufacture of, nuclear, 
chemical, biological or other 
weapons of mass destruction
 – Trade in, or manufacture of, 
landmines, cluster bombs or any 
equipment designed to be used as 
an instrument of torture
 – Propositions relating to companies 
known to manufacture cluster 
munitions in violation of the 
international Convention on Cluster 
Munitions.
Position statements are available at  
home.barclays/citizenship/
