home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 41
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
An example of this is the focus within 
Unsecured Lending on early interventions for 
our Barclaycard UK customers: identifying and 
helping customers who could potentially be in 
financial difficulty. For instance, we’ve 
introduced a new alert, reminding customers 
who have not made at least the minimum 
payment by their due date to make a payment 
to avoid late payment fees. 
To encourage customers to reduce their 
balances and associated interest payment 
more quickly, we have launched personalised 
communications to highlight the length of 
repayment periods resulting from only making 
minimum payments. In addition, our new 
online calculator shows customers how 
increasing their payments can reduce the 
amount of interest they pay, thereby paying 
their balance down quicker.
We’ve also been working alongside debt 
charities to develop training on suicide 
awareness and help colleagues provide the 
right level of support to customers that need 
our help at the most critical time. In June this 
year we also launched our new support tool, 
Debt Switch Estimator, into the branch 
network, this is a lending calculator that allows 
colleagues to work with customers in order to 
view all their unsecured debts in one place 
and then compare with a single replacement 
loan, breaking down the cost of customers 
individual loans, overdrafts, and credit cards.
In the Business Bank we have a series of 
policies in place to ensure we comply with 
relevant regulation, mitigate the risk of 
defaulting for customers undergoing 
challenging circumstances and provide a 
framework for impairment, provisioning and 
forbearance.
In order to make a credit decision we generally 
look at a number of factors including the 
complexity of the customer, account 
behaviour, business and financial risk and 
Barclays’o risk appetite given sector and client 
risk profile. We have regular monitoring in 
place to oversee performance. Where 
customers fall behind on their payments, our 
Barclays Financial Assistance area is able to 
support, with a strong focus on ensuring good 
customer outcomes.
Customer satisfaction
To assess the quality of our service we 
continue to monitor overall customer 
satisfaction across our wide range of specific 
journeys to ensure our decisions are fully 
focused on customers. In 2018, we received 
over 280,000 pieces of feedback and 
proactively reached out to over 13,000 of 
these customers to resolve any outstanding 
issues they have raised. This follow-up 
programme plays a key role in keeping our 
culture customer-centric.
Our Relationship Net Promoter Scores (NPS®) 
ended the year with an score of +17 (2017: 
+14), while Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS® 
remained relatively flat year on year with a score 
of +9 (2017: +9). Our Barclaycard International 
business also continued to perform well on 
Relationship NPS®, supported by a continued 
focus on customers and improvements in our 
products and digital experiences.
We also continue to monitor our performance 
in many independent benchmarks. In 2018 the 
Competition and Market Authority’s Service 
Quality Metric rated Barclays 5th= out of the 
16 largest personal current account providers. 
Complaints
In Barclays UK we continue to focus on 
customer experience by transforming customer 
journeys. Our underlying complaint volumes 
(Barclays UK, excluding Payment Protection 
Insurance) reduced 9% year-on-year. However 
we have seen an increase in PPI complaints of 
10% driven, we believe, by the increased 
awareness of the PPI deadline. Complaints 
reduction remains a priority for Barclays UK, 
with encouraging progress in our underlying 
business, despite the upcoming PPI deadline. 
Barclays UK complaint volumes, including PPI, 
were down 2% year-on-year.
Barclays International complaint volumes have 
shown a small increase (2%) year on year. 
Volumes continue to be largely driven by our 
Cards & Payments business. Complaints per 
000 client accounts and total complaint 
volumes have remained stable in Cards & 
Payments, despite significant business growth 
in the period. It is important to note that BI 
complaint volumes in H2 2018 decreased 7% 
v H1 2018, as part of our focus on complaints 
reduction, which remains a significant priority.
Right: We keep developing and innovating, offering 
a wide range of products and services that help 
our customers and clients achieve their ambitions. 
We offer a range of products and services, from 
award-winning mortgage products to wealth and 
investment management, and from innovative 
payment systems to digital firsts in mobile banking.
Note
®Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered 
trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc.
