home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 63
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Supporting sustainable innovation in society
Barclays focusses on supporting innovation 
through its internal programmes as well as 
through collaborative partnerships with 
organisations such as Unreasonable Group 
and Big Issue Invest in the UK. Below we have 
profiled some of our key sustainable 
innovation initiatives.
Unreasonable Impact
Unreasonable Impact, co-created by Barclays 
and Unreasonable Group, is the world’s first 
international network of accelerators focused 
on scaling up entrepreneurial businesses that 
will help employ thousands worldwide while 
solving some of our most pressing societal 
challenges.
The programme consists of intensive two-week 
accelerators held annually in three distinct 
regions – the Americas, UK & Europe, and Asia 
Pacific – and is designed to support growth 
stage ventures with advice and guidance from 
a global community of world-class mentors 
and industry specialists, including experts 
from across Barclays.
To mark another year of transformative 
support for the Unreasonable Impact ventures, 
in October 2018, Barclays convened over 400 
entrepreneurs, colleagues, clients and industry 
experts at the second annual Unreasonable 
Impact World Forum for a ground-breaking 
approach to the world’s biggest issues. 
Fast-paced, thought-provoking and inspiring, 
the Unreasonable Impact World Forum 
showcased the impact that the Unreasonable 
Impact entrepreneurs are making across the 
future of energy, food, water and agriculture, 
sustainable living, and supply chains.
To date, the global network consists of over 90 
ventures that collectively reach more than 
100 million customers and support more than 
20,000 jobs*.
For further information, see: 
unreasonableimpact.com/
Barclays recognises the role of sustainable innovation in solving 
some of society’s major challenges and the part Barclays plays in 
supporting new ventures to grow and thrive. 
Unreasonable Impact - supporting sustainable innovation
Americas
LanzaTech uses anaerobic microbes to 
convert waste into fuels and chemicals. 
From waste industrial gases to agricultural 
residues and unsorted, unrecyclable 
municipal solid waste, LanzaTech can take 
advantage of numerous regionally 
sustainable, low-cost, and widely available 
feedstocks, with the potential to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions by over 70%.
In 2018, LanzaTech’s first commercial facility 
began operations in China, converting steel 
mill emissions to ethanol. The company also 
converted steel mill derived ethanol to a 
drop in jet fuel and this was used to fly a 
commercial Virgin Atlantic passenger jet 
from Orlando, Florida to London. 
The LanzaTech approach has huge scale-up 
potential and if the technology were rolled 
out worldwide, using a variety of available 
wastes and residues, could produce enough 
fuel to displace around 18% of the crude oil 
in use today.
UK
Green Fuels is a leading supplier of 
decentralised waste-to-biodiesel technology. 
Their systems are designed for safety, easy 
installation and usage, industrial strength, 
and the flexibility that enables them to 
convert a variety of feedstocks – including 
used cooking oils, animal fats, and tallows 
– into sustainable biodiesel. 
Since its inception, the work Green Fuels has 
undertaken in commissioning waste to 
biofuel facilities globally has offset over 5m 
tonnes of CO2 and its customers have the 
capacity to produce over 420m litres of 
sustainable biofuel in over 80 countries.
Asia
Fourth Partner Energy (4PEL), an energy 
management firm, is paving the way for 
a brighter and energy-secure India by 
improving energy accessibility, contributing 
to environment sustainability, creating jobs 
and driving energy cost savings; primarily 
through adoption of distributed solar 
solutions. 
Over the past eight years, the company has 
developed a unique proposition of providing 
complete in-house solutions across 
Financing, Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction and Operation & Maintenance 
of critical solar infrastructure. 
To date, 4PEL has executed over 1,600 
grid-connected and off-grid installations 
across 23 states in India. Its work has 
helped create 2,500 direct and indirect job 
opportunities and reduce India’s 
dependence on coal by 100,000 tons per 
year, equivalent to reducing carbon 
emissions by 210,000 tons per year or 
planting 9.5 million trees.
Note 
* Source: Unreasonable Group. Estimated impacts.
