08 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Working together to help people rise
Business model
Our business model enables us to leverage resource and 
relationships to produce long-term sustainable outputs for 
our stakeholders. These outputs provide combined value 
for our stakeholders, helping people to rise.
We believe our diversified business model 
through business line, geography and 
customer, helps enhancing our resilience to 
changes in the external environment, and 
captures the benefits of diversification through 
the efficient delivery of cross-group synergies.
Barclays operates via two clearly defined 
divisions - Barclays UK and Barclays 
International, supported by Barclays Execution 
Services (BX).
Barclays UK is a personal and business 
banking franchise with true scale, built around 
our customers’ needs with innovation at its 
core. It comprises our UK retail banking 
operations, our UK consumer credit cards 
business, our UK-based wealth offering, and 
banking for smaller businesses.
Barclays International is a diversified 
transatlantic business comprising our 
corporate banking franchise, which is market 
leading in the UK with strong international 
growth opportunities, our top-tier investment 
bank, a strong and growing US and 
international cards business, our international 
wealth offering, and leading payments 
capability through both corporate banking 
and the Barclaycard merchant acquiring 
expertise. Barclays International has scale in 
wholesale banking and consumer lending, 
strength in our key markets, excellent growth 
potential, and good balance in its revenue 
streams, delivering further resilience and 
diversification.
The BX mission is to be a world-class provider 
of simple, efficient, innovative and secure 
operation and technology services which 
deliver customer and shareholder value. BX 
achieves this by building world-wide 
connectivity, standardising services, creating 
synergies, fostering innovation, leveraging 
technology group-wide and ensuring 
resilience and security. It also builds trust and 
creates capacity for investment.
Resource and Relationships
Barclays International
Ba
rc
la
ys
 U
K
Ba
rcla
ys Exe
cution Services
Barclays
We draw on the following to support our 
activities and deliver value to our 
stakeholders:
?? the strength and reputation of our brand 
– serving customers and clients for over 
328 years
?? a strong, well-funded and diversified 
balance sheet
?? customer and client trust and depth of 
relationships
?? our geographic focus: firmly anchored in 
the two financial centres of London and 
New York, with global reach
?? a track record of successfully innovating 
for customers and clients
?? the skills and expertise of our people and 
our shared values which inform the way 
we work and how we act
We aim to provide superior services to 
help customers and clients create, grow 
and protect wealth in a sustainable way:
Barclays’ customers and clients include: 
individuals, small and medium-sized 
businesses, large corporates and multi-
national companies; financial institutions 
and banks; institutional investors, funds, 
sovereign institutions and governments
We offer:
?? a safe place to save, invest and manage 
cash and payments
?? funding for purchases and growth
?? management of business and financial 
risks
?? financial and business support 
?? innovative digital and technology 
capabilities
Resource and relationships
