68 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Independent Limited Assurance Report to Barclays PLC
KPMG Assurance Statement
KPMG LLP (‘KPMG’ or ‘we’) were engaged by 
Barclays PLC (‘Barclays’) to provide limited 
assurance over the Selected Information described 
below for the year ended 31 December 2018. 
Our conclusion 
Based on the work we have performed and the 
evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that the 
Selected Information has not been properly 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the Reporting Criteria. 
This conclusion is to be read in the context of the 
remainder of this report, in particular the inherent 
limitations explained below and this report’s 
intended use. 
Selected Information 
The scope of our work includes only the 
information included within the Barclays 
Environmental Social Governance (ESG) Report 
(‘the Report’) for the year ended 31 December 
2018 marked with the symbol ? (‘the Selected 
Information’). 
We have not performed any work, and do not 
express any conclusion, over any other information 
that may be included in the Report or displayed on 
Barclays’s website for the current year or for 
previous periods unless otherwise indicated. 
Reporting Criteria 
The Reporting Criteria we used to form our 
judgements are the Shared Growth Ambition 
2018 Reporting Framework supplemented for the 
Selected Information related to Access to 
Employment by the Barclays LifeSkills Reporting 
Guidelines as set out at https://home.barclays/
esg (‘the Reporting Criteria’) and https://
barclayslifeskills.com/reporting. The Selected 
Information needs to be read together with the 
Reporting Criteria. 
Inherent limitations 
The nature of non-financial information; the 
absence of a significant body of established 
practice on which to draw; and the methods 
and precision used to determine non-financial 
information, allow for different, but acceptable 
evaluation and measurement techniques and 
can result in materially different measurements, 
affecting comparability between entities and 
over time. 
Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors of Barclays are responsible for: 
?? designing, implementing and maintaining 
internal controls relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the Selected Information 
that is free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error; 
?? selecting and/or developing objective 
Reporting Criteria; 
?? measuring and reporting the Selected 
Information in accordance with the 
Reporting Criteria; 
?? the contents and statements contained 
within the Report and the Reporting Criteria. 
Our responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to plan and perform our 
work to obtain limited assurance about whether 
the Selected Information has been prepared in 
accordance with the Reporting Criteria and to 
report to Barclays in the form of an independent 
limited assurance conclusion based on the work 
performed and the evidence obtained. 
Assurance standards applied 
We performed our work in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3000 – ‘Assurance Engagements 
other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information’ (‘ISAE 3000’) and, in respect 
of the greenhouse gas emissions information 
included within the Selected Information, in 
accordance with International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3410 - ‘Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’ 
(‘ISAE 3410’), issued by the International Auditing 
and Assurance Standards Board. 
The work performed in a limited assurance 
engagement varies in nature and timing from, and 
is less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance 
engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance 
obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than the assurance that would 
have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. 
Independence, professional standards and 
quality control 
We comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants issued by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants and we apply 
International Standard on Quality Control (UK) 1, 
‘Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and 
Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other 
Assurance and Related Services Engagements’. 
Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive system 
of quality control including documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements and professional standards (including 
independence, and other requirements founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour) as well 
as applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Summary of work performed 
Considering the level of assurance and our 
assessment of the risk of material 
misstatement of the Selected Information, 
whether due to fraud or error, our work 
included, but was not restricted to: 
?? assessing the appropriateness of the 
Reporting Criteria for the Selected 
Information; 
?? conducting interviews with Barclays 
management to obtain an understanding of 
the key processes, systems and controls in 
place over the preparation of the Selected 
Information; 
?? agreeing a selection of the Selected 
Information to be inspected against the 
corresponding source documentation; 
?? assessing a selection of formulae used 
(including unit and carbon conversion 
factors) and manual calculations performed 
over the Selected Information; 
?? performing analytical review procedures 
over the aggregated Selected Information, 
including a comparison to the prior year 
amounts having due regard to changes in 
business volume and the business portfolio; 
and 
?? reading the Report and narrative 
accompanying the Selected Information in 
the Report with regard to the Reporting 
Criteria, and for verifying consistency with 
our findings. 
This report’s intended use 
This assurance report is made solely to Barclays 
in accordance with the terms of the engagement 
contract between us. Those terms permit 
disclosure to other parties, solely for the purpose 
of Barclays showing that it has obtained an 
independent assurance report in connection with 
the Selected Information. 
We have not considered the interest of any other 
party in the Selected Information. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we accept no responsibility 
and deny any liability to any party other than 
Barclays for our work, for this assurance report or 
for the conclusions we have reached. 
KPMG LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
London 
21 February 2019 
The maintenance and integrity of Barclays’s 
website is the responsibility of the Directors of 
Barclays; the work carried out by us does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any 
changes that may have occurred to the reported 
Selected Information, Reporting Criteria or Report 
when presented on Barclays’s website. 
