58 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Sustainable Development Goals
Society
Barclays supports the delivery of the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) through our financing activities and 
our programmes and partnerships.
Barclays recognises the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) as a set of shared 
global priorities to be achieved by 2030. The 
2030 Agenda was adopted by all United 
Nations Member States in 2015 and is based 
on a set of 17 interconnected Goals, with 169 
defined indicators. These relate to positive 
human, societal and environmental factors, 
and are to be reached through commited 
engagement and multilateral collaboration.
We acknowledge the importance of business, 
along with governments, society and other 
stakeholders to work together to make the 
2030 Agenda a reality. Barclays is committed to 
play its part and work in partnership with our 
stakeholders to support the delivery of the 
Goals.
Financing for the Goals
An estimated USD 5–7trn of financing per year 
is required to achieve the SDGs by their target 
date. It is widely accepted that a significant 
proportion of this funding will need to be 
mobilised from the private sector.
As a financial institution, Barclays’ most 
significant contribution to the SDGs will be 
achieved by providing financing solutions that 
tackle the issues underpinning the Goals, and 
we uphold our responsibility to act as steward 
to the flow of finance towards each of the 17 
Goals.
Supported by partnerships and collaboration
Our work is underpinned by collaboration and strategic partnerships with key stakeholders. 
Targeted initiatives 
We magnified our focus on two of these Goals - Goals 8 and 13 - which we can strategically 
drive forward, not only through our core business activity, but also through our community 
programmes and partnerships.
Our primary role is in financing solutions that work towards achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals
Financing solutions
Each of the 17 Goals will require adequate financing in order to achieve its underlying 
targets. Barclays’ most significant contribution will be achieved through providing financing 
solutions that tackle the issues underpinning each of the Goals. Funding solutions might 
include access to capital markets, direct lending and investment products.
