14 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Governance and risk management overview
Company
Our ability to meet our responsibilities to our key stakeholder 
groups is underpinned by a strong commitment to the way we do 
business – ensuring that we run our business responsibly and 
manage our broader social and environmental impacts 
appropriately. 
As a global organisation with customers and 
clients active across all economic sectors and 
financial services delivered through complex 
regulated operations and infrastructure, we aim 
to manage environmental, social and 
governance issues effectively and consistently 
across the Group’s businesses with appropriate 
governance and oversight. 
This section provides summary information 
on governance and risk management topics 
from an ESG perspective with links to further 
detail across the Annual Report and other 
sources, including Barclays website and 
additional disclosures.
Board oversight 
The Barclays PLC Board of Directors is 
responsible for the overall leadership of the 
Barclays Group, including establishing its 
Purpose, Values and Strategy and satisfying 
itself as to the alignment of Barclays’ culture to 
its Purpose, Values and Strategy. In 2018, the 
Board approved a new common Purpose for 
the Barclays Group – Creating opportunities to 
rise – which reflects Barclays’ entrepreneurial 
spirit, relentless quest for better customer and 
client centricity, and our commitments to 
society at large and to our colleagues.
How we behave is instrumental in our 
achieving the highest standards of 
performance, adding value to our customers 
and clients, and meeting our regulatory 
obligations.  The Board believes that its role is 
to create and preserve value, not just for 
shareholders but for all stakeholders and 
society more widely.  The impact of our 
behaviour and business on customers and 
clients, colleagues, wider society and the 
environment is monitored by the Board with 
support from the Barclays PLC Board 
Reputation Committee.
Barclays PLC Board Reputation Committee 
The Board Reputation Committee supports the 
Board in promoting its collective vision of 
Barclays’ purpose, values, culture and behaviours. 
It reviews the management of conduct and 
reputational risk and oversees Barclays’ conduct 
in relation to its corporate and societal 
obligations, including setting the guidance, 
direction and policies for Barclays’ approach to 
customer and regulatory matters and reviews 
and approves Barclays’ approach to citizenship, 
environmental  and social matters Barclays’ 
Citizenship strategy, including advising 
management on these matters. It also safeguards 
the independence of and oversees the 
performance of the Compliance Function, 
Board Governance Framework
Barclays PLC
Responsible for the overall leadership of the Barclays Group
Audit Committee
?? Reviews accounting 
policies and financial 
reports
?? Monitors the internal 
control environment
?? Considers the adequacy 
and scope of the internal 
and external audit
?? Reviews and monitors the 
Barclays Group’s 
Whistleblowing policies
Remuneration Committee
?? Sets principles and 
parameters of 
remuneration for Barclays
?? Considers and approves 
remuneration for executive 
Directors and senior 
executives
?? Oversees employee share 
schemes 
Nominations Committee
?? Reviews the composition 
of the Board
?? Recommends the 
appointment of new 
Directors
?? Considers succession plans 
for the Chair and Group 
Chief Executive
?? Oversees the annual Board 
effectiveness review 
Reputation Committee
?? Oversees Barclays’ culture 
?? Considers Barclays’ 
conduct and reputational 
risk issues and exposures
?? Reviews and approves 
Barclays’approach to 
citizenship, environmental 
and social matters
?? Oversees Barclays’ 
approach to customer and 
regulatory matters
Risk Committee
?? Monitors and recommends 
financial and operational 
risk appetite
?? Monitors the financial and 
operational risk profile
?? Reviews limits for types of 
financial and operational 
risk 
Further detail on each Committee’s activity in 
2018 is available in the Director’s report
