54 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Enabling an engaged and inclusive workforce
Colleagues
Building human capital 
Training
At Barclays, we have a wide variety of 
leadership development programmes and 
training, as well as focusing on the 
engagement of our people through locally led, 
line manager owned activities. Barclays further 
conducts regular formal performance reviews 
for all permanent employees aligned with 
career development goals.
Advancements have been made in learning 
throughout 2018 as we look to enhance the 
learning experience for all colleagues, through 
focus on systems and processes as well as 
content. This included launching new digital 
channels, working in conjunction with 
industry leading partners. 
Additionally, we continued our commitment 
to supporting customers through a digital 
immersion programme aimed at ensuring 
colleagues in customer facing branch roles are 
able to engage our customers on the digital 
solutions we provide.
One way in which we measure progress in 
these areas is through our employee 
engagement survey, which enables us to 
gauge how we are doing and help us focus 
action on the right areas. In addition, we 
measure our people in our performance 
management and appraisal system through 
regular formal performance reviews - both on 
what they do, as well as how they do it, in line 
with career development aims. This ensures 
our colleagues are able to continually broaden 
their skills, emphasising their personal 
development and working in a way which 
mirrors our Values.
Early careers and apprenticeships:
During 2018 we launched a new Graduate and 
Apprentice programme across our global 
Operations business to attract the workforce 
of the future with a specific focus on our 
strategic campus locations. In addition, we 
have increased the number of opportunities in 
our Early Careers offering which includes 
graduate, internship and apprenticeship 
programmes in the majority of our business 
areas. In 2018 we hired over 1,100 interns, 800 
graduates, and over 530 apprenticeships.
Employment programmes
We support the transition into the workplace 
through employment programmes offering 
specific support to new employees and interns. 
In 2018, we continued to support Service men 
and women in their transition into the workplace 
through Barclays’ Armed Forces, Transition, 
Employment & Resettlement (AFTER) 
programme, which helps to address the issues 
faced during the transition into civilian life. Since 
its launch in 2010, the programme has helped 
over 6,000 service leavers land the right job and 
Barclays has directly hired over 575 individuals. 
Further information can be found at 
www.barclays.com/AFTER 
Trade union membership
Barclays respects the International Labour 
Organisation (ILO) core conventions in all its 
operations globally, including the rights to 
freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. Barclays is proud of its 
longstanding partnership with Unite the union 
in the UK, which represents c.83% of UK 
employees and of the constructive engagement 
with our European Works Council (the Barclays 
Group Employee Forum) and country level 
works councils in other European countries.
Note
a Numbers exclude colleagues from Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL).
Average hours of training per year (2018) 
per employeea (overall average 12.53)
Split by gender
 Female 14.22
 Male 11.56
Split by employee 
category
 Permanent 15.11
 Other 7.34
Split by grade
BA1 20.37
BA2 16.06
BA3 18.26
BA4 14.51
Assistant VP 12.37
Vice President 13.04
Director 13.27
Managing Director 11.48
87% 
of colleagues who responded are proud 
of Barclays’ contribution to the 
community and society
76% 
of colleagues who responded say that 
their line manager inspires them and 
others across the organisation
92% 
of colleagues who responded say that 
Barclays is focused on achieving good 
customer and client outcomes
75% 
of colleagues who responded say that all 
employees have equal opportunities for 
success,
91% 
of colleagues who responded say that 
they can be themselves at work
Your View results
