34 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Human rights and supply chain
Company
We respect and promote human rights through our 
employment policies and practices, through our supply  
chain screening and engagement and through the  
responsible provision of our products and services.
Human rights
At Barclays, we operate in accordance with 
the International Bill of Human Rights, and 
take account of other internationally accepted 
human rights standards, including the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights. We respect and promote human rights 
through our employment policies and 
practices, through our supply chain screening 
and engagement and through the responsible 
provision of our products and services. Our 
commitments and objectives across these areas 
are outlined in our Statement on Human Rights.
We engage in dialogue with a range of 
stakeholders, including government, law 
enforcement agencies, non-governmental 
organisations, and other banks to share our 
expertise and better understand the role banks 
can play in respecting human rights. We are 
one of only two banks that are members of 
the Home Office’s ‘Business Against Slavery’ 
Forum, a partnership between UK Government 
and businesses aimed at accelerating progress 
toward eradicating modern slavery. We also 
participate in the Equator Principles Social 
Risks Working Group and the ‘Thun Group’, an 
informal group of international banks that are 
working to build understanding on the 
application of the UN Guiding Principles for 
Human Rights in a banking context. 
We provide internal guidance for lending and 
relationship managers on how to integrate 
human rights issues into their assessment of 
financial transactions and business 
relationships. Using the online human rights 
guidance tool (unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit) 
which we helped to develop in conjunction 
with other financial institutions participating 
in the former UNEP FI social issues advisory 
group, we provide guidance on: identifying 
potential human rights risk in lending and 
investing; assessing the materiality of the risk; 
and identifying possible risk mitigation 
opportunities.
We have general client due diligence 
processes in place to help combat the risk of 
clients being associated with human rights 
issues. Our KYC, Credit and Financial Crime 
teams review both new and existing clients by 
monitoring relationships for areas of risk or 
concern and by conducting media screenings 
for any adverse reports. Our policy is to 
escalate any cases which give us cause for 
concern from a human rights perspective, 
leading to further investigation by the 
Sustainability Team and Reputation Risk 
Teams. For more information on how ESG 
issues are considered in client transactions, 
please see the Environmental and Social risk 
management section on pages 22 to 27.
According to the US Government’s annual 
Trafficking in Persons Reporta, palm oil may 
be produced using forced or child labour in 
countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia and 
Myanmar. Modern slavery and other human 
rights abuses in the sector are driven by 
transnational and domestic migration, as 
well as displacement of local farmers near 
plantations.Workers on these plantations 
are particularly vulnerable to modern slavery 
because of the isolation of palm groves.
In recognition of these human rights risks, 
as well as the environmental and climate 
change impacts associated with the sector, 
Barclays developed a Statement on the 
Forestry and Palm Oil sectors in 2018 
outlining our expectations of clients on 
these issues. The Statement (which will be 
published in early 2019) includes specific 
expectations on human rights including: 
zero tolerance for forced labour and human 
trafficking, adherence to the principle of free 
prior and informed consent, and adoption 
of a “no deforestation, no peatland 
development and no exploitation” policy.
Going forward we will further embed these 
expectations within our client due diligence 
processes and raise awareness on the 
issues amongst our frontline staff. In cases 
where credible human rights allegations 
or other non-compliances are identified at 
clients we will escalate the issue to the 
appropriate business unit Transaction 
Review Committee and, if necessary, the 
Group Executive Committee and the Board 
Reputation Committee for a final decision. 
We prefer to engage with and support our 
clients in establishing responsible business 
practices that respect human rights. 
However, in cases where clients are unable 
or unwilling to comply with our 
requirements or agree to an action plan 
to address the issues, we will seek to exit 
the relationship.
Note
a www.state.gov/documents/organization/258876.pdf
Addressing human rights risks in the palm oil sector
