30 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
Taskforce on climate-related financial disclosures
TCFD implementation update 
TCFD guidelines on metrics and targets 
As disclosures develop, we would expect 
further dialogue over time between banks, 
corporates, investors and other market 
participants on appropriate, decision-useful 
and robust metrics to assess financial risks 
and opportunities. 
As a bank and financial intermediary we are 
committed to exploring metrics which we can 
use to assess the impact of climate-related 
risks and opportunities in our lending 
portfolio, and over the short, medium and 
long term. Our involvement with a number of 
organisations and working groups e.g. UNEP 
FI, IIF, UK Finance and SBTi (Science Based 
Targets initiative) aims to develop appropriate 
definitions and metrics for the sector. Areas of 
focus include, amongst others, clarity over 
detailed definitions of carbon-related assets 
building on the TCFD high-level guidance; 
standardised methods for the calculation and 
presentation of credit exposure to carbon-
related assets; definitions for climate-related 
and green financing across product 
categories; and suitable risk management 
metrics. We are also involved in collaborative 
projects to develop accounting protocols for 
emissions related to financing, banking and 
investment management activities through 
the SBTi.
Current metrics include:
Financing: Barclays facilitated £5.3bn in 
environmental financing in 2018 (2017: £4.8bn) 
which includes green bonds and loans for 
renewable energy and low-carbon technology. 
See page 44 for more information on green and 
sustainable finance solutions. 
Treasury Green Bond Investment: Barclays 
remains committed to the green bond market 
as an investor and has continued to expand 
our green bond portfolio to £2.27bn in 2018 
(2017:£1.56bn), meeting our target of £2bn, 
we now aim to double our investment to £4bn 
over time. See page 46 for more information 
on the Treasury green bond portfolio and 
impact metrics. 
Operations: In 2018 we set a science-based 
reduction target for scope one and two 
greenhouse gas emissions of 80% by 2025; 
this is in line with the level of decarbonisation 
required to keep global temperature increases 
well below 2 degrees. Further, we have 
committed to RE100, which means we will 
procure, globally, 100% of our operational 
power needs from renewable sources by 2030, 
with an interim target of 90% by 2025.
Credit exposures: Credit risk concentrations 
by industry are available in the Annual Report.
We are exploring options to align with 
theTCFD guidance on ‘carbon related assets’ 
and work within industry forums to develop 
more detailed technical guidelines. 
We currently report credit concentrations 
under an ‘Energy and Water’ industry 
classification, and our total exposures to these 
sectors as at end 2018 was 3.0% of our total 
assets (2017:3.8%). 
The Energy and Water classification is an 
internal mapping against standard industry 
codes. The overall classification includes 
natural resources and extractives sectors, 
including coal and oil & gas; electricity, gas 
and steam supply utilities; and water utilities.     
See pages 165 to 166 of the Barclays PLC 
Annual Report 2018 for further detail on credit 
risk exposures across industry sectors.
