home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 35
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Modern Slavery
Modern slavery is a priority human rights 
issue for Barclays, and we are committed to 
combating this within our business, our 
supply chain, and with clients and customers. 
During 2018, we continued our innovative 
work to develop specific account and 
behavioural typologies to identify and track 
potential suspicious activity of clients and 
customers, partnering with the Construction 
Industry Training Board (CITB) and Joint 
Money Laundering Taskforce (JMLT) to 
develop an account typology for identifying 
labour exploitation in the construction sector. 
Targeted training sessions subsequently 
empower our branch staff to take action if 
they suspect modern slavery or human 
trafficking
We convened a conference “Unchaining 
Modern Slavery; what’s your responsibility?” 
aimed at helping our corporate clients better 
understand the Modern Slavery Act and 
address modern slavery risk. The event 
included practical sessions from a range of 
legal, business and NGO experts and was 
attended by 80 businesses across a range of 
sectors, including hospitality & leisure, retail, 
facilities management, construction and the 
public sector. 
During 2018, we also continued to partner 
with Stop the Traffik to raise awareness 
amongst branch staff, customers and the local 
community to act on instances of suspected 
modern slavery. These campaigns targeted 
areas in the UK where modern slavery has 
been identified as more prevalent.
Further information on our approach to 
combatting modern slavery can be found in our 
Modern Slavery Act Statement 
Supplier Code of Conduct
Our supplier relationships are managed based 
upon an operational risk segmentation 
approach (based purely on materiality to 
Barclays) and are required to operate in 
accordance with our Supplier Code of 
Conduct. Barclays will always require that our 
suppliers comply with all applicable laws, 
regulations and standards within the 
geographies and industries in which they 
operate. Where operating in regions where 
such laws, regulations and standards are 
non-existent, adherence to principles defined 
by recognized international bodies such as the 
United Nations International Labour 
Organization (ILO) is expected.
The Barclays Supplier Code of Conduct, 
informed by the GRI reporting guidelines, sets 
forth our minimum expectations with regard 
to environmental management, human rights, 
diversity and inclusion (workforce and 
supplier), societal responsibility, product 
responsibility, whistleblowing and working in 
accordance with the Barclays Values.
The Barclays Supplier Code of Conduct applies 
to prospective and existing suppliers. 
Pre-contractually, we require attestation to the 
Barclays Supplier Code of Conduct prior to 
contract execution for all suppliers, regardless 
of the operational risk segmentation. For 
existing suppliers, on an annual basis, 
suppliers categorised as non-low risk must 
attest to their ongoing commitment to meet 
those expectations and, where failure, must 
remediate in order to remain in good standing. 
Periodically, for high-risk segmented suppliers 
which are material to Barclays, an onsite 
review may be conducted as part of our 
controls assurance process to look for 
evidence that the expectations are being 
delivered in an effective manner.
In 2018 we introduced a Societal Impact 
section within our supplier proposal process 
enabling suppliers to showcase their unique 
approach in applying the Supplier Code of 
Conduct into their business – not as a matter 
of compliance but as a means of competitive 
differentiation.
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion
All suppliers are treated equally and fairly in 
accordance with our procurement policy. We 
select suppliers based upon best value and 
seek ways to maximise competition from all 
segments of society.
As part of our Supplier Diversity initiative, in 
the major regions where we operate, we work 
primarily with Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGO’s) to identify size- and 
ownership-diverse business to compete for 
contracting opportunities throughout our 
supply chain.
Companies that qualify as micro, small or 
medium-sized enterprises (MSME’s) or as 
diverse-owned enterprises – where the 
general qualifications of 51% or more 
ownership, control and operating authority by 
individuals from in-country, under-
represented communities, comprise our 
diverse supplier pool.
Through establishment of policy and practices 
within our procurement function, we 
implemented recruiting, matchmaking, 
utilization, development, reporting, education 
and banking programmes that have resulted in 
continuous improvement in supplier diversity 
performance, moving our proportion of global 
expenditure with diverse suppliers from 5.6% 
of spend in 2014 to nearly 8% in 2018.
Our signature events have helped to deliver on 
our supplier diversity and inclusion objectives 
while also recognising the contributions of all 
of our suppliers to our customers, clients and 
society.
Our Supplier Diversity Day events have 
introduced high-potential diverse suppliers in 
the US and UK to our business leaders 
resulting in contributions to innovation and 
cost savings. Our Supplier Diversity Second-
Tier (subcontracting) event expands our 
procurement reach, enlisting prime suppliers 
in support of contracting with diverse 
suppliers. Our inaugural Second-Tier 
Conference in 2016 was considered a 
first-of-its-kind in the UK by a large corporate 
entity. In 2018, we expanded the conference 
as a global, virtual event that expanded our 
reach across the US, UK, Europe and Asia.
Barclays’ suppliers across the world compete 
for awards in five categories: Supplier Of The 
Year, Innovation, Customer Experience, 
Citizenship and Diverse Supplier of the Year -- 
the latter two of which reinforce the Barclays 
Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier 
Diversity & Inclusion practices.
Prompt Payment
Prompt payment is critical to the cash flow of 
every business, and especially to smaller 
businesses within the supply chain as cash 
flow issues are a major contributor to business 
failure. 
Barclays is a signatory to the Prompt Payment 
Code* in the UK. We commit to paying our 
suppliers within clearly defined terms, and to 
ensuring there is a proper process for dealing 
with any issues that may arise. We measure 
prompt payment by calculating the 
percentage of third-party supplier spend paid 
within a specified time following invoice date, 
or receipt date if the invoice is already over 45 
days from invoice date (by value over a 
three-month rolling period) for all entities 
where invoices are managed centrally.
We achieved 82.1% (2017: 89%) on-time 
payment by value to our suppliers, falling 
short of our public commitment of 85% for 
the first time. This metric was affected by a 
change in systems which impacted 
performance during the year.
The Duty To Report on Payment Practices and 
Performance Legislation requires reporting on 
a six-month rolling average, by volume, where 
we are in line with contractual payment terms. 
Under this definition we paid 88% of UK 
invoices on time in both H1 and H2 in 2018.
* promptpaymentcode.org.uk
