home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 15
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
including the performance of the Group Chief 
Compliance Officer. To fulfil its responsibilities, the 
Committee undertook regular reviews of reports 
from Compliance, Financial Crime, Human 
Resources , Corporate Relations, Risk and Internal 
Audit and received complementing deep dive 
sessions. 
In recognition of one of its key responsibilities to 
ensuring Barclays is committed to managing its 
impact on broader society, the Committee 
throughout 2018 encouraged and challenged 
management to further develop Barclays’ 
commitments and approach to financing 
businesses in sensitive sectors as well as 
approaches taken to climate change. Progress 
against Barclays’ citizenship strategy, Barclays ESG 
ratings compared with peers and stakeholder 
perceptions were also reviewed. Furthermore, the 
Committee reviewed key significant and 
emerging Reputation risks facing Barclays 
(including within sensitive sectors), received 
specific information on business action to 
address those issues and the outcomes of 
horizon scanning were also addressed.  
Further detail on the Committee’s activity in 2018 
is available in the Director’s report
Other Barclays PLC Board Committees
Relevant ESG issues are also considered by 
other Barclays PLC Board Committees, as 
appropriate. For instance, the Board Audit 
Committee oversees the Barclays Group’s 
whistleblowing policies and procedures, and 
the Board Risk Committee provides oversight 
of the risk issues relating to cyber security and 
operational resilience.
See the Director’s report for more information on 
the Barclays PLC Board and Board Committees
Management forums
The Global Citizenship Council (GCC) is a 
management committee comprised of senior 
leaders with responsibility for providing overall 
strategic direction and leadership of Barclays 
community investment strategy.
Formal and informal forums are active on 
specific themes including the Executive 
Diversity Forum, and internal networks such 
as the Green Banking Council. 
Remuneration 
A summary of the Barclays’ Directors’ 
remuneration policy and full remuneration 
disclosures are available in the Remuneration 
report on pages 99 to 126 in the 2018 Annual 
Report. The full policy can be found on pages 
108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report. 
Non-financial measures remain an important 
element of how we assess progress against 
our strategy. Barclays’ Performance 
Measurement Framework incorporates a 
balance of key financial performance metrics 
and broader strategic non-financial measures 
including economic, social and environmental 
objectives.
Please see the non-financial performance 
section in the Strategic Report for further detail 
on the performance framework
Please see the Remuneration report for further 
detail
For further detail on the performance  
framework and 2018 outcomes at  
home.barclays/annualreport
Managing environmental, social and 
governance risks 
Although there is no commonly accepted 
definition of ESG-related risks at present, there 
is growing interest from investors and ESG 
rating agencies on a set of common 
environmental social and governance issues. 
Frequently these are already managed 
through our Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) even when the issues 
have not been historically classified as ‘ESG’. 
We have provided commentary and links to 
further information on issues which were 
highlighted as ESG-related risks through our 
dialogue with stakeholders or which have 
been highlighted as part of external ESG rating 
profiles and questionnaires. These include 
environmental, social and climate risk 
management; culture and conduct; 
technology resilience, cyber security and data 
privacy.
The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk 
management by defining clear standards, 
objectives and responsibilities for all areas of 
Barclays. It supports the Chief Executive and 
Chief Risk Officer in embedding effective risk 
management and a strong risk culture. Risk 
Appetite defines the level of risk we are willing 
to take across the different risk types, taking 
into consideration varying levels of financial 
and operational stress.
Risk Appetite is key for our decision-making 
process, including ongoing business planning, 
new product approvals and business change 
initiatives. The management of risk is 
embedded into each level of the business, 
with all colleagues being responsible for 
identifying and controlling risks. 
We use a Three Lines of Defence model in 
managing risk. The First Line of Defence 
comprises the revenue generating and client 
facing areas, along with all associated support 
functions, including Finance, Treasury, Human 
Resources and the Chief Operating Officer 
(COO) function. 
The First Line identifies its risks, and sets the 
policies, standards and controls, within the 
criteria set by the Second Line of Defence. 
The Second Line of Defence comprises Risk 
and Compliance and oversees the First Line by 
setting the limits, rules and constraints on 
their operation, consistent with the Risk 
Appetite of the Barclays Group. 
The Third Line of Defence comprises Internal 
Audit, providing independent assurance to the 
Barclays Board and Barclays Group Executive 
Management. 
The Legal function does not sit in any of the 
three lines, but supports them all and plays a 
role in overseeing Legal Risk. The Legal 
function is also subject to oversight from the 
Risk and Compliance functions with respect to 
the management of operational and conduct 
risks.
Financial and Non-Financial Principal Risks are 
managed in compliance with frameworks and 
policies that set out responsibilities for risk 
management. Any risks such as 
environmental or social risks that may fall 
outside the principal risks, or that may entail 
more than one principal risk, are also subject 
to the ERMF and oversight by the control 
functions (Risk and/or Compliance). We 
provide summary information below with 
further detail on key risk factors, management 
processes and 2018 performance on each 
principal risk available in the Risk review in the 
Annual Report and the Pillar 3 Disclosures.
See the Annual Report and Pillar 3 Disclosures
