home.barclays/annualreport Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 37
Leadership team
Context and approach
A
dditional inform
ation
O
ur focus areas
Vendor engagement
Barclays recognises that the management of 
environmental impacts is integral to good 
business practice. We encourage our suppliers 
to join us in similar efforts to implement 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
as appropriate to their businesses, and to 
align with best practice activities. This is 
tracked through our Supplier Code of Conduct 
(see page 35 for more information).
Our RFP process further requests suppliers to 
confirm if they have a Science Based Target or 
when they anticipate setting one which 
contributes to their overall RFP score. Our aim 
is to encourage companies to set ambitious 
emissions reductions targets aligned to SBT 
methodology.
In 2019 we further set two new targets to 
increase our supplier engagement through our 
work with CDP. We have set a target to achieve 
a 90% response rate from our suppliers in 
responding to CDP’s Climate Change 
questionnaire. Our other target aims for 80% of 
our suppliers reporting carbon emissions to 
create a robust Scope 3 Supply Chain 
emissions baseline and track any emissions 
reduction initiatives across our supply base.
Barclays have been recognised for our 
commitment to engaging our supply chain 
and have been listed on the 2019 CDP 
Supplier Engagement Leader board.
Carbon offsetting
As in previous years, Barclays has offset its 
operational emissions by funding an 
equivalent carbon dioxide saving elsewhere 
through the purchase of carbon credits. This 
is part of Barclays’ wider strategy around 
reducing our overall footprint. This prioritises 
reducing our direct environmental impact, 
followed by offsetting the remaining CO2 
emissions from energy use in buildings and 
from business travel.
We offset our emissions through a number of 
projects sourced from a range of different 
technologies and regions. Our process involves 
a detailed review of underlying projects and 
external due diligence.
Updated targets
Science-based targets and RE100
For 2018-2025 we have committed to 
bold new external targets:
?? A 80% carbon reduction target within 
our building operations by 2025, which 
is aligned to Science Based Target 
(SBT) methodology. Going forward, 
our performance will be tracked using 
Scope 2 Market Based accounting. This 
is a change from our previous Location 
based reporting basis and will enable 
us to more effectivley track the impact 
of our reduction efforts.
?? A commitment to procure 100% of our 
operational electricity power needs 
from renewable sources by 2030, with 
an interim target of 90% by 2025.
These targets further demonstrating our 
commitment to the climate agenda and 
transition to the new low carbon economy.
Total emissions  
by scope 2018  
(tonnes CO2e)
  Scope 1r: Direct combustion of fuels, and 
company-owned vehicles (from UK only) 25,553
  Scope 2*r: Purchased electricity (location based) 
and steam for own use 197,365
  Scope 3r: Emissions related to employee  
business travel 69,233
*Scope 2 r: Purchased electricity (market based) and 
steam for own use 249,942
r Subject to limited assurance by KPMG. Refer to page 68
Energy
We have saved 44 million kWh’s of energy 
through our managed energy efficiency 
programme. A summary of the key projects is 
given below:
?? Retail refresh programme achieved 1.3 
Gigawatt Hours (GWh) through the 
implementation of energy efficiency 
measures such as over door air curtains, 
back of house LED upgrades and building 
optimisation measures. 
?? LED programmes 7.3 GWh of energy saved 
to LED replacements at our corporate office 
locations across the UK, USA and India.
?? Data centre initiatives – 27 GWh of energy 
saved through our global Server 
Decommissioning programme run by our 
Data Centre teams to remove any unused 
legacy equipment across our data centres 
and comms rooms. 474,000 kWh’s reduction 
through installing new chillers in our UK Data 
Centre which utilises free cooling technology.
Waste
We continue to work with our suppliers and 
contractors to improve the accuracy of our 
waste data and ensure our waste is diverted 
from landfill. In 2018 we set a goal to divert at 
least 75% of our waste from landfill by 2025. 
In addition, we launched a global 5 Point 
Plastic Plan to replace or remove single use 
plastic items available from our catering, 
branch and office areas.
2018 0.89.6 6.6
2017 34.16.5
2016 14.22.38.6
 Waste (tonnes) recycled (incl. composting)  17.0
 Energy recovery 13.6
 Landfill 25.1
