02 Barclays PLC Environmental Social Governance Report 2018 home.barclays/annualreport
The Board provides oversight of  
environmental and social matters 
Chair of the Board Reputation Committee
skills for societal benefit– whether helping 
people acquire basic digital and financial skills 
through our LifeSkills programme, or taking part 
in the Unreasonable Impact programme that 
brings together entrepreneurs and experts to 
find scalable solutions to problems, such as 
access to clean water.  In October 2018, I joined 
three young people who were being helped by 
Barclays and our partner, Catch 22, to prepare 
for job interviews.  They were bright but had lost 
the confidence or experience to apply for work.  
Getting a job would turn their lives around, and I 
was proud that Barclays could help.  
Third, we focussed on issues which are of wide 
social concern and which also impact our 
business directly.  Data privacy is one such issue 
– of increasing concern to many individuals and 
businesses, and something we must manage 
sensitively at every stage of developing and 
delivering our products and services.  Another is 
climate change.  The Committee approved 
policy statements on Coal, and World Heritage 
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands in April 2018. A 
comprehensive Energy and Climate Change 
Statement (which strengthened and replaced 
our Coal Statement) was published in January 
2019.  As the Statement sets out, Barclays is 
committed to develop its ‘green finance’ skills 
and assets; to conduct careful due diligence 
when considering lending for projects in 
sensitive energy sectors; and to reduce the 
environmental footprint of our own operations.  
We are also working to enhance our reporting 
on environmental matters, in line with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).   
The rest of this report provides information on 
the wide range of environmental, social and 
governance activity which Barclays undertook in 
2018.  I am very grateful to my predecessor, 
Gerry Grimstone, to my Committee members, 
and to Jes Staley and his team for all they have 
done to advance this work.
Mary Francis 
Chair, Board Reputation Committee
I took over as chair of the Reputation Committee  
of the Barclays Board in April 2018. Our job is to 
oversee, on behalf of the board, the company’s 
culture, conduct and reputation. 
Mary Francis
Chair of the Board Reputation 
Committee
The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code says it 
clearly: the role of a company board “is to 
promote the long-term sustainable success of 
the company, generating value for shareholders 
and contributing to wider society”.   
Barclays’ first task is to deliver excellent services 
to its customers.  But every member of our 
Board knows that the way we go about our 
business has wider implications: we can do 
good or harm in people’s lives; we can 
contribute to economic success or failure.
I took over as chair of the Reputation Committee 
of the Barclays Board in April 2018.  Our job is to 
oversee, on behalf of the board, the company’s 
culture, conduct and reputation.  We have a 
particular responsibility to look outwards and 
ensure that Barclays considers the interests of all 
its stakeholders –  shareholders and customers 
of course, but also employees, suppliers, 
governments and communities.  If our business 
is out of step with their concerns and 
expectations, it will stumble.  If we are alert and 
responsive, we will help create a more heathy 
and prosperous society, in which our own 
business can also develop and grow.
In the last year the Reputation Committee had 
three strong areas of focus.  
First, we encouraged management to ensure 
that Barclays’ purpose, values and culture are 
fully aligned and embedded.  We welcomed the 
definition of the new Purpose: ‘Creating 
Opportunities to Rise’.  We emphasised the 
importance of underpinning this with our 
enduring Values: respect, integrity, service, 
excellence and stewardship.  Accordingly, we 
reviewed regularly dashboards of evidence that 
our people act in accordance with those values.  
We also discussed with the Banking Standards 
Board its own, external, survey of the culture of 
our organisation – and were pleased that the 
notable progress made in 2017 was maintained 
in 2018.  We look for a culture that is both 
entrepreneurial and highly risk aware, and we 
see good evidence of this combination.
Second, we wanted to ensure that the final year 
of Barclays’ previous Citizenship programme 
– known as the Shared Growth Ambition - was a 
success.  Jes Staley provides more detail on the 
following pages. I’m particularly proud of the 
work our colleagues have done to employ their 
